MATT: Hello everybody,
and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role,
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass
voice actors sit around
and play Dungeons & Dragons.
ALL: (hollering) We play
Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: Jesus.
Before we jump into tonight's show,
we do have some announcements
to get through,
beginning with our
first of our sponsors,
our friends at Hit Point Press, Sam.
SAM: Okay, before I do the ad
for Hit Point Press tonight,
some quick business.
When I pitched the idea
for tonight's skit,
our producers called
in our team of lawyers
to make sure that it
was going to be okay.
After debating it for
about 36 billable hours,
the attorneys said, "Yes."
On one condition.
I am supposed to read a small
disclaimer at the beginning.
(clears throat)
Disclaimer: Tonight's advertisement,
nor anything Sam ever says,
has been approved, vetted, read,
or dictated by tonight's sponsor.
Hit Point Press has no idea
what Sam will say, do,
smear on his body,
or consume through any orifice.
Hit Point Press has
never met Sam Riegel.
However, in our legal
opinion, if they did,
they would ghost him.
None of Critical Role's
advertisers condone any
of the following:
plant fornication, hair mutilation,
consuming wine with yogurt,
surfer dudes,
astronaut mockery,
mouth stuff, hand stuff,
feet stuff, football blood,
or male presenting nipples.
The following skit is not recommended
for children under 17,
adults over 39, the elderly,
Gen X-ers, Boomers, nerds,
jocks, band geeks, floaters,
otakus, stoners, sportos,
motorheads, geeks, wastoids,
dweebies, dickheads, or cats.
Parental discretion is advised.
Do not taunt Happy Fun Ball.
Coastal flooding is in
effect until sundown.
Check yourself before
you wreck yourself.
All rights reserved.
Okay, I'm ready for the skit.
Go ahead, Ashley, get yourself ready.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: And this is going to make
Hit Point Press so impressed.
Ready?
LAURA: What?
TALIESIN: Jesus.
SAM: Aim.
LAURA: No, no.
ASHLEY: All right, here we go.
MATT: (stuttering) No, what-- wait no,
we are out of time for this.
Sorry, Sam.
SAM: Oh really? What? Why?
MATT: Don't worry, I'll
read the copy for you.
Ashley, put it down.
(throat clear) So this episode is
sponsored by Big Bads,
a monthly booklet by our
friends at Hit Point Press
about boss monsters for fifth edition.
The booklet includes details
about their backstory, tactics,
stats, and more for great
monsters you can incorporate
into any of your games.
This month meet Captain Fulmini.
She's a vampire pirate
who can harness the power
of the high seas with an
unquenchable thirst for revenge.
Arr!
You can find out more and
sign up at bigbads.com,
but move fast because you must
sign up at the end of April
to receive the Captain
in all of her glory
and get this in your rewards.
So thank you so much to Hit Point Press
and Jesus Christ,
don't do that.
SAM: I feel like we had plenty
of time to shoot an apple
off my head.
MATT: No, we're real rushed.
ASHLEY: Oh, for sure could have gotten it.
MATT: Real, real rushed.
We had to get through this,
a lot to talk about.
Thank you, Sam.
Thank you, Hit Point Press.
(throat clear)
Our second sponsor tonight is Starcane,
sponsored by Penny Dragon Games
and their newly launched campaign
for Aizendore's Vault
of Tragic Treasure,
which features two fifth edition
compatible books, STLs,
and a lot more.
Aizendore's Vault,
I believe it's pronounced--
Aizendore's Vault is
laden with magical items
of the tragic variety to be used
at one's own risk in your own games.
They also have an original adventure,
Order of Elemental Chaos
as part of their campaign,
which features an item
from the Aizendore's Vault
and introduces players
to the elemental planes
of air, fire, water, and
earth before hurling them
into the elemental chaos itself.
And their first STL pack
for creature encounters
in chapter one,
Plunder and Lightening, is free
for all current campaign supporters.
You can find everything and
more about the campaign now
over at bit.ly, that's
bit.ly/crpennydragon
and use code "critrole10," one word,
in the pledge manager to
get $10 off your pledge
of a hundred dollars or more.
And our final sponsor for
the night, our friends
at D&D Beyond, who've been with us
since the beginning of Campaign 2.
ALL: ♪ D&D Beyond! ♪
MATT: The official tool set of our show.
An amazing online digital
tool for keeping all
the information about your
campaigns, your characters,
and everything in-between.
You can get up to six
characters for free.
With a subscription, there is no limits
to how many characters.
I have far too many in there
that I'll never have a chance to play.
Many of you know my pain.
Anyway, they're awesome,
check them out if you haven't yet.
Thank you so much.
Marisha, you have an
announcement, I believe.
MARISHA: I do.
Thank you for joining us
live on Twitch and YouTube.
To join us live on our
moderated community chat,
please head on over to Twitch.
MATT: All right.
(laughter)
MARISHA: And!
LAURA: There's more.
MARISHA: Tomorrow,
(laughter)
Almost, don't cut away.
Join us for chill music and
animation with Mighty Vibes,
a new one, tomorrow, April 9th
at 4:00pm Pacific on Twitch.
And then on YouTube,
the VOD will be available
Sunday, April 11th.
The vibes.
Now you can cut away.
MATT: There you go.
And to finish up, I believe
we have some announcements
from Laura Bailey.
BAFTA Award-winning Laura Bailey.
LAURA: I'm here to tell you
that our Critical Role--
Why do I suck so bad at this?
Our Critical Role version of Munchkin,
featuring the Mighty Nein.
I wish I had it to
hold up for you guys,
but you can look at it online.
It is available now from
our friends at The Op.
Munchkin Critical Role is
a standalone 172-card game
with art and imaginative aspects
from both Munchkin and Critical Role
with 160-- I'm bad--
custom illustrations
from the incredible
Elena Muñoz and Tyler Hostettler.
I said both those names perfectly.
MATT: (laughs)
ASHLEY: Perfectly.
LAURA: Seriously, the art,
you've seen it all.
MATT: The art's incredible.
LAURA: It's amazing.
LIAM: It's pretty, super pretty.
LAURA: It's available now at local
game stores at the US, UK,
and Australian Critical Role
shops online.
And of course from
The Op's online shop as well.
But wait, I have
something else to say.
SAM: Oh! Oh, okay.
(laughter)
LAURA: Our Vox Machina T-shirt, designed
by Bryan Weiss, is available
in our Australian shop.
(cheering)
LAURA: That's it, that's what I got.
MATT: Look at that, you did it in one.
Well done, Laura.
LAURA: Thanks.
TRAVIS: (clapping)
MATT: Well done, proud of you.
SAM: She gets applause for some reason.
(laughter)
SAM: We all did announcements,
she gets applause, okay.
LAURA: Be at the end, Sam,
and you'll get them, too.
MATT: Well, I believe that's
the end of our announcements.
So let's go ahead and jump
into tonight's episode of
Critical Role!
(water bubbling)
(thunder rumbling)
(explosion)
♪ Role ♪
♪ Critical Role ♪
♪ Mighty Nein, Mighty Nein ♪
♪ Roll the dice ♪
♪ Roll the dice, dice, dice ♪
♪ The adventure begins ♪
♪ They were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends ♪
♪ And the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from the ♪
flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware 'cause ♪
you're about to be dead ♪
♪ They got magic and flair ♪
♪ They got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there ♪
♪ There's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice ♪
♪ Role ♪
♪ Critical Role (roll the dice) ♪
♪ Can you answer the call? ♪
♪ Diggin' deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn ♪
(your turn, your turn) ♪
♪ To roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
MATT: Welcome back.
So last we left off: The Mighty Nein
have made their way back to Eiselcross,
intent to catch up to or
cut off the Tomb Takers
from their journey into the
depths of the Aeorian ruins.
The great city of mages from
before the Calamity
that lies long buried
beneath the ice and
snow of the continent.
You've convinced
Essek Thelyss, the shadowhand
of the Kryn Dynasty to
accompany you along this journey.
Upon finding the hidden
entrance the Tomb Takers
had previously utilized,
given to you by a
successful Divine Intervention,
you discovered that other
strange magics were afoot nearby
as necromantic energies
triggered or at least
your presence uncovered
some undead frost giants.
They attacked you
immediately, did some battle,
but you managed to, aside from Jester,
get through fairly unscathed
and begin to delve within
the subterranean ruins themselves,
heading through the tightly
enclosed spaces, the ruined rock
and frost, eventually
finding a collapsed pit.
And at the base of it
what looked to be a
long-forgotten, ruined courtyard
and the first sign of this space,
of the Aeorian civilization.
Here, you messed around
with some brown mold.
You accidentally collapsed a tower.
You (laughs) began to
plot some possible means
of setting some traps
for your quarry,
and then found your way
up a nearby hallway,
familiar to some of the
previous ruins you had come across.
And as you took a moment
to break near an intersection to rest,
it was discovered a
creature that had been
stirred by your presence crawling
from the ceiling duct nearby
dropping into the ground and
preparing to attack you all.
So, first, let's go ahead and figure out
where you all are placed.
SAM: Ooh.
MATT: So looking here.
Caduceus was right around this corner.
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: Jester, you were kind of--
LAURA: I was like against the wall.
MATT: Which one?
LAURA: Sure, that one.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: (like Laura) Sure.
TRAVIS: I had shaken
Jester out of her communion.
MATT: Indeed.
LAURA: Oh, that's true,
so you were right next to me.
MATT: Fjord would be right there.
LAURA: Communion. (laughs)
TRAVIS: What is it called?
LAURA: Commune.
TRAVIS: Eh, whatever.
MATT: It's close enough.
Caleb, where would you be?
LIAM: Not into the middle
of the intersection,
but right on the edge of it.
ASHLEY: Put that wafer down.
MATT: Like right there?
LIAM: Yeah, maybe a little
more towards the center.
MATT: Right there?
LIAM: And then back towards you, 10 feet.
MATT: 10 feet, there?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: You got it.
Okay, Yasha?
ASHLEY: Okay, let's stand
over by that other wall.
The other just--
MATT: Over here?
ASHLEY: Closer to you? No--
MATT: This was the intersection
that nobody had crossed
yet except for Caduceus
began to look into it.
So whereabouts in here?
ASHLEY: Yep, that's perfect.
MATT: Sure, there we go.
All righty, Beauregard?
MARISHA: I'll be also with
the Team Caduceus party.
MATT: Okay, over here?
MARISHA: Oh yeah.
Yeah, I guess.
MATT: All righty, Veth?
SAM: I seem to remember
talking to Yasha.
So near her.
MATT: Sure, we'll put you right there.
TALIESIN: Wow, we are in a line,
aren't we?
LAURA: Hmm.
MATT: We'll put Essek--
LAURA: Well, we were
kind of clumped, so.
MATT: Essek likely right there.
TALIESIN: It's a hallway.
LIAM: Hallway. Classic hallway.
MATT: Well.
LAURA: Well.
SAM: Ooh.
LAURA: Cool, cool, cool.
SAM: Oh, wait, he came
from that direction?
LAURA: Yes.
SAM: Goddamn it.
MATT: Because Caduceus
looked back this way
and then it dropped from the
ceiling right behind you.
TALIESIN: In that case,
I curled around the wall.
MATT: You curled around this way?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: And Matt--
MATT: Away from it then?
You just noticed it and pointed it out.
TALIESIN: Okay, then I haven't
gotten fucking anywhere yet.
MATT: So we can get to that when we can.
LIAM: Just out of curiosity.
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: The halls we're in,
is it stone or is it metal?
MATT: Best that you can tell,
it seems to be mostly
metallic on the sides.
The floor seems to be made of stone.
The ceiling appears to be metal,
metal plates, some of
which are fallen and bent.
Like a duct.
TRAVIS: Weird.
MATT: Well, I need you all
to roll initiative.
(yelling)
LAURA: That fast, that fast,
that fast.
SAM: This combat brought
to you by Dwarven Forge, by the way.
If you want to become a
master of battle maps
like Matt Mercer, the best place
to cut your teeth
is Dwarven Forge's starter sets,
which you can find
at bit.ly/critroledf.
MATT: 25 to 20?
TALIESIN: 22.
LAURA: 22, clerics first?!
TALIESIN: Whoa, clerics first?!
SAM: 25 over here.
LAURA: Oh!
SAM: Natural 20. Oh wait, does
that mean magic happens? No.
MATT: Not for initiative.
LAURA: What's your dexterity, Caduceus?
TALIESIN: 14.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Who's at the--?
SAM: (vocalizes)
LAURA: I have a higher dex than him.
MATT: All right, so
Jester's going first.
Got to write that down, all right.
SAM: The trumpet is crazy.
MATT: Isn't it?
SAM: Yeah, it's cool.
MATT: All righty, 20 to 15?
MARISHA: 18!
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: It's like experimental jazz.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: I like it.
MATT: 15 to 10?
MARISHA: Like battle music.
LIAM: 13.
TRAVIS: 10.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: What, that 13, 10?
SAM: There's the thing,
man, there's no time signature.
No meter at all.
ASHLEY: (snapping)
(laughter)
MATT: Yasha?
ASHLEY: Eight.
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: That's with advantage.
TRAVIS: Is it really?!
ASHLEY: Off to a great start.
MATT: Oh, well, hopefully
it's the last of
of the bad rolls.
ASHLEY: My initiative is always
blah.
MATT: I know!
Like, for both campaigns.
ASHLEY: You know--
LIAM: It's history of the show.
TALIESIN: It's canon.
MATT: Well, Veth, you're top.
As the creature (impact, growling)
you see its thick,
viscous saliva slopping
onto the ground and then freezing
in crystalline structures as it hits.
Its breath causing mist.
SAM: I don't know if it can
take a swipe at me, but
I will--
TRAVIS: One way to find out.
SAM: I will bonus action disengage.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: And run away from it.
MATT: Whereabouts are you running?
SAM: Like 30 feet forward.
MATT: All right.
About there?
SAM: I still have
a good shot at it?
MATT: Yeah, as long as Beauregard
ducks, which she can do.
SAM: And I will hold my action
until someone engages it
and one of my friends
goes into melee.
MATT: You got it.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: M'lee.
MATT: All right, finishing Veth's turn,
we have Jester's up next
with Caduceus on deck.
LAURA: Oh god, that's that fast.
I don't want to be up early, no.
MATT: Yeah, you rolled a high initative.
SAM: It's 7:01pm, here we go.
(laughter)
LAURA: You know what
would be a cool feature
on D&D Beyond is if you
could separate your spells
into regular spells and
bonus action spells.
ALL: You can.
LAURA: Oh, you can? How?
(laughter)
MATT: This commercial for
D&D Beyond brought to you by--
LAURA: How?
TALIESIN and LIAM: Go
into your actions--
LIAM: -- in the upper left-hand
corner of that big box.
LAURA: Oh, bonus actions?
SAM: Then bonus actions.
LIAM: The tops are actions
then you scroll further down
and it lists your bonus actions.
LAURA: Oh, I have one
bonus action spell?
Wow, go me, okay, okay.
LIAM: That's one more than I have.
LAURA: I'm going to Invoke Duplicity!
MATT: All righty!
LAURA: I'm going to invoke
my duplicate directly behind Randall!
LIAM: The spells further down.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: (laugh)
MATT: Behind--?
LAURA: The monster.
MATT: Oh, the monster.
SAM: Wait, [inaudible] reaction one?
LIAM: It's listed under reactions.
LAURA: And--
LIAM: So I have no bonus actions.
LAURA: She's going to be
like (tongue waggling)
because she can.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: She's going to
make a lot of noise.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: To hopefully distract
them a little bit.
And then for my bonus action,
I'm going to cast
Spiritual Weapon.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: Right on top of him.
MATT: All right, towards
the front, the side?
Where do you want it?
LAURA: Yes, right there.
MATT: Right there, you got it.
LAURA: And I'm going to try to hit him.
LIAM: Looks like he
just wants to hug you.
LAURA: 29.
MATT: That definitely hits.
TRAVIS: Beau.
TALIESIN: We should save the big ones--
LAURA: Nine points of
spiritual unicorn--
no, lollipop damage.
This just a little cute
lollipop, this is not
the high level lollipop.
MATT: You got it, all righty.
So as it appears (whooshing)
sheers itself down.
It strikes the sides of its hide.
You see it cuts through, a minor wound,
but nevertheless, it shows some damage.
It seems less interested in the noise
of your duplicate at the moment
as it's now focused on the group
of individuals to its front,
but we'll see what it
does in previous rounds.
That finish your turn?
Do you want to stay put,
or you going to move?
LAURA: I don't know what's
around that corner,
but I will try--
Oh god, I'll maybe back up five feet.
MATT: Five feet this way?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, you are
backing up into this large
broken board that catches your back
as you back up into it.
Is that where you want to be?
LAURA: Sure.
MATT: Okay.
That finishes your go.
Caduceus, you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to
cast Bless at 2nd-level.
I'm going to throw it at you.
MARISHA: Hell yeah.
TALIESIN: Myself, you, and you, Sam.
So that's that as well.
SAM: Oh, thank you.
ASHLEY: I'll take it.
SAM: And it does what, again?
TALIESIN: d4 to saves, d4 to attacks.
SAM: Cool, thank you.
MATT: Sorry, let's just do Veth's to--
TALIESIN: Wow.
MARISHA: 500 hours later.
TALIESIN: Literally my signature move.
LIAM: Smash cut to the end of Campaign 3.
"What do I have as a bonus action?"
MARISHA: Wait, so Beau, Veth, and who?
TALIESIN: Yasha and myself.
MATT: So four people?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's level two,
so three plus one.
MATT: You got it.
TALIESIN: One for me so that I
don't lose it by getting hit.
MATT: You got it, okay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and--
Well, where am I going to do?
I'm going to try and
back up around the corner.
Do I see anything around the corner?
MATT: If you want to go
back around the corner
here, you'll know.
TALIESIN: Yeah, let's take a look.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: That far.
MATT: That far? You got it.
As you glance in, it is collapsed
and there is nowhere to go on that side.
It is a enclosed pathway.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: That would have been
a good place to be.
TALIESIN: I will stay there
for the moment, then.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: As long as it doesn't, yeah,
as long as it's clear.
MATT: All right, that
finishes your turn.
The creature now goes.
MARISHA: Aw.
MATT: It rolled a natural 20
for initiative.
(groaning)
TALIESIN: Wow, love it.
MARISHA: No, I hate it.
MATT: It's there on the ground.
You can see now it has
six legs out of its body.
These heavy, muscular,
shorter, lizard-like limbs
that are shorter, perspective-wise,
but this is a massive beast.
They are close to six to
eight feet long each.
As it (growling).
SAM: They're all left legs, though.
MATT: Yeah, all of them.
It runs in circles, it's weird.
As it sees the scattering,
people beginning to back up
and then people start
drifting off to the side,
and Caduceus ducks around the corner,
it adjusts itself up against the wall
over here a bit.
LAURA: Does it step away
from my duplicate?
MATT: It does.
LAURA: Do I get an opportunity
attack on that then?
MATT: From the duplicate?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: I don't know if the
duplicate gets opportunity attacks.
It's not considered
a creature, I don't think.
LAURA: I guess that makes sense.
MATT: Unfortunately.
TRAVIS: Do you know?
LAURA: No.
SAM: Of course not.
MATT: It'll go there, I think.
As it backs up and clings to the wall,
you see three of its legs dig
into the sides of the metal.
You hear (creaking metal)
creak into his grip
as it holds it, the other
three holding it there.
And it backs its head into its chest.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: As it begins to inhale, you see
crystals of ice begin to appear
around the corners of its toothy maw.
And as it suddenly--
LAURA: Take a shot.
MATT: -- comes in with a pause and then
(exhales)
extends this blast of
bright white energy.
As it coasts outward,
it's an absolute-zero
flash freeze in a cone.
SAM: A cone?
But I ran away!
LIAM: Soft serve, or--?
MATT: Well, Essek made it out of it.
MARISHA: Chocolate dipped?
TALIESIN: Do I get partial cover or no?
MARISHA: Waffle?
MATT: I will--
TALIESIN: I was trying to
specifically get cover there.
MATT: Yes, you do, so you will get a bonus
to your saving throw.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: So I need everybody
to make a constitution saving throw.
SAM: Dexterity?
MARISHA: It's not dex?
MATT: It's not dex. It's constitution,
so you do not get a bonus.
LIAM: That's cold.
MATT: It's only to dex.
LAURA: Do I get advantage
because I'm cold resistant?
MARISHA: Ooh, yes, yes, yes.
MATT: No, you take half damage
because of cold resistant.
LAURA: Shit!
TALIESIN: You get a d4 on that.
MARISHA: Ooh, yes.
ASHLEY: Oh no.
SAM: What's going on over there?
MATT: Okay, hold on a second,
hold onto those numbers.
LIAM: I rolled real low.
LAURA: Really low.
LIAM: Real low.
TALIESIN: Added the d4? Added the d4?
SAM: Oh, I didn't. Totally forgot.
You just said it two seconds ago.
TALIESIN: All three of
you got a d4 on it.
MATT: Fjord, what'd you get?
TRAVIS: 15.
MATT: 49 points of cold damage.
MARISHA: 49?!
MATT: Yes.
Jester?
LAURA: Seven.
MATT: 49 halved, so you take
24 points of cold damage
and I need you to make a constitution--
Oh no, you don't--
yeah, constitution check
for your duplicate.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
LIAM: Nine.
LAURA: I get advantage because War Caster.
MATT: 49 points of cold damage.
TRAVIS: Shit, fuck.
LAURA: What do I add to it?
My wisdom?
MATT: It's your constitution saving throw.
LAURA: My constitution saving throw
on this?
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: 21.
MATT: 21? Not enough.
LAURA: But I took half damage on the 40--?
MATT: That's right, no, no.
You took a half damage
and the damage you took--
No, you're right, so it
would save, you're right.
Yeah, it's half to half.
MARISHA: We don't have time for this asshole.
SAM: Already?
MATT: All right, Veth?
LIAM: I was still injured from the first fight.
SAM: 22.
MATT: 22, all right. So you take half,
you take 24 points of cold damage.
SAM: Oh, and because it's an--
MARISHA: We're really busy, okay?
SAM: -- evade?
Do I evade? No, dexterity.
MATT: That's dexterity--
SAM: No, never mind.
MATT: So you just take it.
LIAM: I asked for a short rest.
MATT: Yasha?
LIAM: But no one wanted a short rest.
ASHLEY: 27.
MATT: 27, so you take 24 points
cold damage. Caduceus?
TALIESIN: 19.
MATT: 19, you take
24 points of cold damage.
LIAM: I was injured
from before this fight already, so.
MARISHA: 30 total.
LIAM: Single digits.
MATT: 30 total?
24 points of cold damage.
ASHLEY: Brr!
LAURA: Woof.
MATT: And with that,
it's going to go ahead
and skitter up the wall and
begin to climb up its space.
It is now upside down and over
all of you right here.
LIAM: Oh, that's not nice.
TALIESIN: Does anybody
get an opportunity attack
from it moving that way?
MATT: Nope, because the
ceiling up here takes it
out of your five-foot range.
It's about-- well, at its size?
TALIESIN: Well, I mean,
it moved past Fjord,
that was all I was--
MATT: It wasn't quite
in melee with Fjord.
MARISHA: Matt, did we
get an opportunity to
finish our short rest,
or did this guy burst
into our short rest?
MATT: This guy would have
burst into your short rest.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: He did?
TRAVIS: Yep.
SAM: Then you're dead.
LAURA: I had already
marked off all my healing.
Oh wait, no. We weren't
taking a short rest.
We were only doing the ritual.
MATT: That's right,
short rest you did before.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: So we're good?
MATT: Yeah, you would have
taken your short rest before.
This is just you doing
your stopping to Commune.
You guys got that short rest
in the previous chamber.
So you're fine.
TRAVIS: Communion?
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: That is correct.
So, I would say, yeah, it is not
because it is a huge creature.
It fills a lot of this chamber,
even though it's up in the ceiling.
So it's in, technically,
melee with everybody in that space
in the center, but it did not
leave anybody's range.
SAM: May I fire?
MATT: You may.
SAM: Okay.
Fuck.
TALIESIN: Add a d4.
SAM: Oh, add a d4!
SAM: One? Okay.
TALIESIN: Take it.
SAM: 15.
MATT: 15, you fire
and it actually hits
the side of its shoulder
and just shears off into the stone.
Its hide too hard and
the bolt goes wide.
SAM: I'm just too cold.
MATT: All righty, that finishes its go.
It is now Essek's turn.
MARISHA: Oh!
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: Essek is extremely
unhappy about this.
He is going to--
SAM: Bum bum bum bum-ba-bum bum.
♪ We are fighting in the hallway ♪
MATT: Sorry, I should have
prepped for this beforehand.
All right, he is going to
cast Magnify Gravity.
SAM: Ooh, that's dunamancy shit.
TALIESIN: Doing the 'mancy.
MATT: He's going to go ahead
and look up and seeing
everyone get frozen goes,
"This is not good." Puts his hand up,
and as he closes his fist,
angrily clutching it
in front of him,
you watch as the space just
below the creature suddenly
creates this black sphere
that engulfs part of
its head and shoulders.
And as it does, you watch the
metal that it's holding on to
begin to creak as it's
trying to pull it down
probably onto some of you,
but getting it off
of the ceiling, at the very least.
So with that, the creature has
to make a constitution saving throw.
With a natural three, it does not succeed.
SAM: Incoming monster.
LAURA: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
MATT: Okay, it takes 19 points
of force damage.
SAM: Okay, good.
MATT: And its speed is
halved on its next turn.
As it's currently unable to pull away.
It's holding it in place.
So Essek's, now they're locked
in place, going, "Take it down."
And he's clutching it there.
That finishes, and Essek
is going to go ahead
and back up away from
here, finishing his go.
Beau, you're up.
Caleb, you're on deck.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm
going to do a wall run.
I'm going to run up
the side of the wall,
I'm going to back flip,
I'm going to do a
two aerial kick-kick
as I flip backwards.
SAM: Yes, yes.
MARISHA: That's real good.
That's real good.
That's a natural 19 on
the first one for 21,
or sorry, 31.
MATT: That definitely hits, yeah.
MARISHA: And then the second one is a 13,
20, 25 total.
MATT: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
MARISHA: Plus 14.
Okay, 14, 18 plus seven is--
what is that?
26 total?
MATT: 26 for both of them?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: You got it.
Jump off the wall, crack, crack,
hitting the side of it,
but it still holds itself firm.
The gravity clutching it in place.
And it's like (monster groans)
MARISHA: And then we'll
go ahead and Flurry of Blows.
MATT: Go for it.
This is full on two foot combo here.
MARISHA: Just, you know,
just feeling it.
A-pop pop, that was another natural 19.
TRAVIS: "A-pop pop."
MARISHA: So 31 and
29 to hit.
MATT: Okay, both hit.
SAM: Oh jesus.
MARISHA: (groans)
Okay, so 13 damage for one
and then 15 damage for the other.
Rolled really good on all those.
MATT: Nice, all right.
MARISHA: And extract those aspects.
MATT: Okay, you notice the creature
as you're impacting its
body and land you can feel
the energy that you expanded into
and pulled back from it.
Surprisingly to no one,
it is immune to cold,
but it is vulnerable to fire.
SAM and TALIESIN: Vulnerable?
SAM: Vulnerable!
LAURA: Not bad.
MARISHA: So I'm just going to
shout to the group:
Hit it with fire! Caleb.
SAM: Wow.
MATT: All right, does that finish your turn?
TRAVIS: ♪ Don't think you have to ask him twice. ♪
MATT: (laughs)
MARISHA: Um.
MATT: Do you want to move or stay put?
MARISHA: I will-- can I just,
if it looks like he's going to crash,
I just want to back up maybe five feet
to not be directly under him.
Yeah, that's fine.
MATT: All right, you got it.
All right, that finishes Beau's go.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: So Caleb is
completely crusted over,
hypothermia, can barely move.
Pulls out a cocoon in one hand
and a string in the other
and just waivers in place.
It's on the ground now, right?
MATT: No, it's still up
there, but it's being slowed
by the Magnify Gravity.
LIAM: It's up top?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Shoves the string away
and squeezes the cocoon,
and you watch as his
shoulders broaden out
and he grows and grows almost
as high as the hallway is.
And there's a gigantic ape
in the hallway now.
MATT: Oh, damn.
SAM: Great ape.
LIAM: I had seven hit points.
TRAVIS: Great ape.
LAURA: Yeah, probably smart.
SAM: Oh yes! Kong.
LAURA: Wow!
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Kaiju battle!
MATT: You are now
face to face with its toes.
You're both yin-yanged in the middle
of this chamber and you are
almost as tall as the ceiling.
You're almost pressed against it.
MARISHA: I had this black light poster.
(laughter)
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: That's it, I'm not going to move.
I'm going to stay right in his
face, and that was my action,
so all done.
MATT: You got it.
Great, so that finishes Caleb's go.
Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: I guess I'll hear
Beau call out, "Hit it with fire."
and I will run up and take two swings
with the Star Razor.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: Now, can I get
in a flanking position
with it with the gorilla
on the other side for
advantage on my swings?
MATT: It's tough right now.
You can get into melee with it,
but you can't flank it
because it's on the ceiling.
TRAVIS: Oh, right, yes.
I mean, details, yes, two--
MATT: You're striking up
like this to try to hit it.
It's large enough that
even though the ceiling is
about 15, 20 feet up there,
it's still within range.
TRAVIS: Great! I will take two swings.
First one is a
29 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: Second one is a
23 to hit.
MATT: Both hit.
Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: Fucking--
Goddamn it.
LAURA: What?
TRAVIS: I was going to use
Searing Smite, but I have
to do it before I hit,
whatever the fuck, who gives a shit.
MATT: I'll let you do it,
if you want to do it. It's fine.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I want
to use Searing Smite!
(laughter)
LAURA: You would since she called out.
TRAVIS: But it's a bonus action.
MARISHA: Yeah, we knew
what you were going for.
TRAVIS: Fucking angled fuck.
MATT: It's fine, it's fine.
ASHLEY: Always takes a
minute to get in the groove.
MATT: Yeah, if it's in
your actions, it's fine.
If it's the next person's turn then, yeah.
TRAVIS: 14, 17-- 17 points of slashing damage.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: On the first one and
same thing, 17 again and
Seven, 12.
21 points of fire damage.
MATT: 21 points of fire damage.
That doubles to
42 points of fire damage.
LAURA: That's awesome.
TRAVIS: And he is on fire.
MATT: Okay!
TRAVIS: At the start of
every one of his turns,
if he doesn't take a
constitution save to put
out the flames, they'll
take 1d6 fire damage.
MATT: You got it.
He is looking real rough.
SAM: Ooh, already?
LAURA: Oh wow!
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Fire.
MARISHA: Good, fire.
TRAVIS: Extract Aspects.
MATT: All righty, that
finish your go, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, so.
Holy Avenger in my hands.
I will take some swipes.
MATT: All righty, yeah,
you are within melee.
ASHLEY: (growls)
Okay, first did I? Don't, well,
hold on, hold on, hold on.
TALIESIN: You'll add a d4 to that.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay.
SAM: I love Ashley
after she takes a nap.
ASHLEY: Oh, that's cocked.
SAM: Just a little sillier.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: 21?
MATT: 21 hits.
ASHLEY: (exhales) Dang, okay, okay.
Here we go, here we go.
SAM: What are those things?
LAURA: Ooh!
SAM: What just happened?
ASHLEY: These are those little--
LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: Cool.
LAURA: Those are so cool.
SAM: Shard dice.
ASHLEY: Holy moly.
Oh my god, my math is just so bad.
Okay, okay, okay, that would be
38 points of damage for the first hit.
MATT: Okay, how do you want to do this?
(cheering)
SAM: That was fast!
ASHLEY: Okay!
TRAVIS: That's usually not a good thing.
TALIESIN: No.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I know.
SAM: No, it was just an easy one.
ASHLEY: All right,
so I'm going to stick the--
since he's on the ceiling,
I just want to somehow
get near his belly
and just slice him all
the way down to the tail.
MATT: Okay, well, the magnified gravity
that Essek is currently holding on,
you can see is drawing it
down off of its perch.
And as it's holding onto the ceiling,
trying to find a way to clamber away,
itself extremely hurt and on fire
and screeching at the sense
of the flames around it.
The gravity pulls one half
of its legs off the ceiling,
exposing its belly, and you
take that moment to just
(slicing sound) right across,
(wet thud) it's innards,
this pale white colorless look
to its organs, just spill out
and hit the ground and
immediately freeze over
as they impact, the body (heavy impacts)
onto the ground.
SAM: Viscera.
MATT: Still in fire.
Buh-bye.
LAURA: Buh-buh-bye.
TRAVIS: Buh-bye. (explosion)
SAM: Super easy, guys.
ASHLEY: Well yeah, that felt--
TALIESIN: That was too easy.
ASHLEY: -- too easy?
SAM: No, I missed.
MARISHA: There's got to
be more of them or?
MATT: All right, does that
finish your turn, Yasha?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I think it's that one.
MARISHA: Uh huh.
TRAVIS: Not just one cockroach.
ASHLEY: Okay. Uh.
ASHLEY: I'm going to rage.
MATT: Okay. (laughs)
ASHLEY: Just in case.
Because I didn't do it.
MATT: You go into a rage.
TRAVIS: We are in initiative still?
MATT: Yeah.
Yasha's the end of the
initiative round, so.
All right, that finish your turn?
ASHLEY: I'm going to stab
him again, because I can!
MATT: Go for it! Go for it.
TRAVIS: Yeah, don't trust it!
MATT: Go for it.
ASHLEY: This is too easy,
I don't understand.
MATT: (laughs)
ASHLEY: That hits, because
that's more than 21.
MATT: Yeah, that'll hit.
LAURA: And he's also dead.
ASHLEY: But he's also dead, so.
TRAVIS: Is he?
MATT: Roll some damage.
ASHLEY: Okay.
That would be-- that's
10, 17, 18, 19, 20,
28 points of damage.
MATT: Okay.
As it hits the ground and
gives out this death screech,
this (shrieking)
(choking)
and just collapses as
you stab its body
one more time and
pull out the blade.
And you hear (shrieking)--
(groaning)
MATT: -- from further
down the hall this way,
at the top of the
initiative order, crawling quickly.
TRAVIS: Oh jeez.
ASHLEY: There we go.
TRAVIS: I didn't like that sound.
LAURA: Yep.
MATT: Another one screeches around.
It looks like a partner of some kind.
TRAVIS: Hall monitor, slow down.
MATT: So.
LAURA: Oh, partner, why you
got to say it like that, Matt?
MATT: Hey, it attacked you first.
ASHLEY: It's going to be mad.
TRAVIS: And they have identical
tattoos on their arms.
LIAM: Very prominent ring.
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: Eiselcross forever.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LIAM: There's a wedding band
on the third hand.
MATT: Veth, you're up first.
SAM: Oh, but I don't even
see this thing yet, do I?
MATT: No, you heard it,
and you turn around
and you can see over your shoulder.
It is now visible around the corner.
SAM: Okay, but I wouldn't get
any sort of sneaky thing.
LAURA: It might not see you.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
There's a big cone coming
out in about two seconds.
SAM: You're totally right about that.
I will--
Did it see me?
I don't know what it sees.
(groans)
It's going to blast us
with ice again, isn't it?
I want to run away.
All right, I will fire--
Let's see here, I don't want
to use any of my spells.
He's trying to soften us
for the later stuff.
MARISHA: This is practice.
About conservation of energy.
SAM: Not going to fall for it.
I'm not going to use my spells.
I'm just going to fire
a simple crossbow bolt.
MATT: Go for it, roll for an attack.
SAM: Okay.
No sneak attack, natural 20!
That'll help.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
SAM: That'll help.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Two plus something.
Eight points of damage,
but it fires again automatically.
MATT: Indeed.
SAM: For 22 to hit.
MATT: That also hits.
SAM: Another nine points of damage.
MATT: Nice.
SAM: And then, knowing what it can do,
I'll fire a third time, bonus action.
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
SAM: 23 to hit.
MATT: That hits, roll damage.
SAM: Another 10 points of damage.
MATT: Nice!
SAM: And now I will use
my movement to go that way
as far away as I can
and hide in the corner.
MATT: You get up into the rubble here
in the corner in this space.
SAM: Put some rubble on top of me.
MATT: Bury yourself like
Arnold in Predator.
You got it.
All righty, finishing Veth's go,
next up is Jester,
with Caduceus on deck.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going--
MATT: You just barely--
You almost got crushed
as it fell to the ground as Yasha sprays
part of its innards across the way
and a little bit (spits) across you.
You feel the cold sensation.
You hear the screech and look over
as that creature just rounds the corner
after dropping off of the wall.
LAURA: Fuck!
MATT: What are you doing?
LAURA: I'm going to send
my duplicate forward
as far as she can go,
which is 30 feet.
MATT: Right.
LAURA: So probably just like, yeah.
MATT: About there?
LAURA: That's good.
Me personally,
I'm going to fire a Sacred-- no.
A Toll the Dead at it.
MATT: Okay.
That is a constitution save or wisdom?
LAURA: That is a wisdom save.
MATT: Wisdom save.
That is a 10 total.
LAURA: Hoh-ha, that means it takes 3d12.
MATT: It has not been wounded yet.
LAURA: "This spell--
"One die when you reach 5th level." What am I?
I'm 11th--
SAM: Didn't I wound it a bunch of times?
MATT: Oh, no, what am
I saying? I'm dumb.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Go ahead.
LAURA: 3d12.
MATT: My brain.
LAURA: Which is here, here, and here.
I never get to use my 12s.
TRAVIS: Crack it out.
MATT: Don't know why I said that.
LAURA: That's a 20, so.
I'm like, "Ooh, 16!"
MATT: (laughs) On a d12.
LAURA: Nine plus 11 is 20,
plus one is 22.
MATT: 22 points of damage to it.
LAURA: And a giant bell
envelops its head and dong!
MATT: Rings inside of it like
a like a Looney Toons cartoon.
It's like (snarling).
LAURA: And then I am
going to duck behind,
lay down on the ground
and duck underneath
the body of its partner.
Its dead lover.
And try to block myself
from whatever cold blast
it sends out.
MATT: I would like you to
make an athletics check
to see if you can push
under its massive, heavy frame.
SAM: As you go down there you see,
like, a pouch full of love letters
that they've written to each other.
And poetry.
LAURA: That would be a nine.
MATT: A nine.
You are trying to move it, but
this is a massive creature,
and you get an arm under it for now.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Okay.
That finishes Jester's turn.
Caduceus, you're up.
TRAVIS: (laughing) It's just a big ape.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: I know. (laughs)
(groaning)
TALIESIN: How far would I have?
Can I see the thing yet or no?
MATT: Yes, you can.
You have line of sight to it.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm just going to
take a basic as hell
Sacred Flame at it.
MATT: Sacred Flame?
Wisdom or dex save?
TALIESIN: Dex save.
MATT: Ooh, 18?
TALIESIN: 18.
MATT: 18, so it does make the save.
TALIESIN: So--
19 halved.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: You get to do damage even though
he makes the save?
MATT: Sacred Flame, I think,
is half damage or no damage?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's--
Oh, wait, yeah, it's--
LAURA: I think if they make the
save, you don't do anything.
TALIESIN: Yep, never mind.
No damage at all, you're right.
MATT: You got it.
SAM: The flannel's affecting you.
MATT: (laughs)
We're all a little fried at the moment.
LAURA: I didn't know,
because grave clerics
sometimes have cool things that--
TALIESIN: Yeah, I have,
like, weird shit.
I'm then going to back off
into the corner.
The far corner, as far as I can.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: The one space you would have
is currently occupied by--
SAM: Get away from me!
(laughter)
Get away from me!
This is my mound of rubble,
get your own!
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: All right.
SAM: Or use your body to block me, but--
ASHLEY: "Get away from me!"
MATT: You see as the creature
now scurries around.
TRAVIS: "No!"
MATT: (snarling)
SAM: Oh no, it sees its lover down.
MATT: Skitters over.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: It is going to--
Looking at the giant ape in front of it.
(snarls)
Unleash another.
SAM: Oh boy, here we go, here we go.
MATT: That gets everybody.
LAURA: You know, the smarter move,
instead of burying myself,
would've been to run away.
SAM: (laughs)
LAURA: That would have been a smart--
TRAVIS: ♪ Everybody, everybody,
everybody, everybody ♪
TALIESIN: Everyone always
wants to hide under the bed.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I feel like you
should get a cover bonus.
MATT: Yeah, I don't know.
LAURA: I don't know.
Oh, a constitution saving throw?
MARISHA: Oh, we have
to save, right? Throw?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: You got a d4.
MATT: Indeed, saving throw again.
Constitution.
TRAVIS: New dice, new dice.
LAURA: 17.
MARISHA: Okay, oh!
TRAVIS: Natural 20 on the new dice.
TALIESIN: Add a d4.
TRAVIS: 25.
MATT: So 26 cold damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: What'd you get?
LAURA: 17.
MATT: 17 just succeeds.
26 cold damage.
LAURA: 13, because half.
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Seven.
MATT: Seven.
That is 52 points of cold damage.
TRAVIS: Fuck!
SAM: Ooh, are you okay?
ASHLEY: 15?
MATT: 15?
52 points of cold damage.
Yes.
Beauregard.
MARISHA: 31.
MATT: 31.
26 points of cold damage.
LIAM: I'd be a skid mark
if I was a human right now.
TALIESIN: Anyone hurting bad?
LAURA: Caleb when he's not a gorilla.
TALIESIN: Well, Caleb's a gorilla.
MATT: It's going to go ahead
and use the rest of its movement
to scurry back into
this space defensively.
That's going to end its turn.
Next up is Essek.
Oh, Essek also, I need
to roll for him, too.
He did not make his save.
He takes 52 points of cold damage.
LAURA: 52 points?!
LIAM: Baby boy.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: We all took, oh.
MATT: You succeeded on your save,
so you took half, which is 26.
LAURA: God.
LIAM: Sure.
MATT: Yeah, so he's-- yeah, he like--
he's half hit points in one go.
TRAVIS: Will you point
to him on the map?
Got it.
MATT: Yeah, but it's a 60-foot cone,
this thing goes quite a ways.
SAM: Near the ape.
MATT: Angrily--
SAM: What an angle.
LAURA: That's cool.
TALIESIN: Love it.
TRAVIS: That's a great angle!
(laughter)
MATT: (roaring)
TRAVIS: Holy shit.
MATT: That's amazing.
TALIESIN: That's everything
I ever wanted.
TRAVIS: (roaring)
Put a bone jaw in his hand.
MATT: Could you make a
concentration check for me,
Laura, if you don't mind?
LAURA: Oh, with advantage
because of War Caster.
16 plus my con save's a 20.
So I'm fine.
MATT: Yeah, you're fine.
Okay.
LAURA: Thank you for the
reminder, I'm sorry, I forgot.
MATT: It's all good.
Let's see here.
Okay, yeah, Essek is
going to go ahead and--
Can just barely see out
of the corner there.
Everyone's clustered in the middle
and he's like, "I can't get free.
"(sighs)" He's going
to go ahead and use a
3rd-level Magic Missile
to just arc around at it.
SAM: Interesting.
The ol' Magic Missile.
TALIESIN: Tried and true.
MATT: Okay.
SAM and TALIESIN:
♪ (sing with background music) ♪
MATT: As all of these little
beams of force begin to appear
at the ends of his fingers
and one in the palm,
they gather into these small,
condensed balls of
purple-blue energy
before they all spiral out,
arcing through everyone
like anime missiles,
through the nooks and crannies,
and then exploding on
the side of the creature
as it withdraws even
further into the hallway.
And with that, Essek's
going to go ahead and run
and put his back against the other wall
on the opposite side, going (panting),
and like dust some of the icicles
that have gathered on
the edge of his mantle.
Beauregard, you're up.
Caleb, you're on deck.
MARISHA: Oh.
Uh.
Huh?
Okay, where am I?
MATT: You are over here
on the opposite side
of the dead creature.
MARISHA: I can get to
Randall, too, right?
MATT: Likely, it depends.
You want to go over
the body or around it?
MARISHA: Over it.
MATT: Okay, so using the
corpse as a stepping point,
over, that'll put you
just enough movement
to get up to where it is.
LAURA: I imagine it was like a
vault, a one-handed vault over.
Yeah. Something real cool.
MARISHA: You know.
Like it's a Cadillac, but it's not.
MATT: Yeah, you'll get
there, just enough.
MARISHA: Pop pop.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Bob Bob.
MARISHA: Ooh, my luck might be coming--
Okay, okay.
Oh wait, you're right, I have d4s.
TALIESIN: d4s.
MARISHA: Okay so that's 12,
12 plus seven is 19,
plus--
TALIESIN: Math.
MARISHA: For the first one,
plus one, so 20 total?
MATT: Actually, remind me, Caduceus.
You took damage last--
No, that's right, you were.
TALIESIN: I'm all right.
MARISHA: 20 and 21?
MATT: 20 and 21 both hit.
MARISHA: Okay.
And--
Oh no, my eye is twitching.
Oh no.
Shit.
The first one is 13 points of damage
and the next one is 15 points of damage.
MATT: Nice, all right.
Rushing around over
the body, using the momentum
as you rushed down
into it, whack, whack!
Both hits impact it and
you see it now, it,
as you come towards it,
trying to defend itself,
putting up its front legs
almost defensively
with its claws out and
you just move around it
and hit it twice.
What else are you doing?
That was your action.
MARISHA: Man, I really
want to save my shit.
I'm going to move to the side.
Can I move this way around it?
MATT: You are pretty much
at your movement
to climb over it.
MARISHA: Oh, I've already done all that.
You're right, you're right.
I will do nothing.
I will wait.
MATT: Okay, bonus action nothing?
MARISHA: I don't-- no, don't, no.
TRAVIS: (giggles)
MATT: You get a free one hit
for a bonus action.
MARISHA: Oh, that's right,
I do. Yeah, I'll punch it.
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: I'm always used
to spending ki points and stuff.
MATT: Yeah, you just
get one instead of two.
LIAM: Don't trust him, Marisha,
he's still fucking with you.
MARISHA: I know, I know.
He knows what he's doing.
That hits, that's 28?
MATT: 28 hits.
And that's--
MATT: Beauregard, this area's
also collapsed inward.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Well, there you go.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: Answers our question.
MARISHA: Yeah.
10 damage.
MATT: 10 damage?
All righty.
Now that finishes you go?
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: Capeleb.
LIAM: Capeleb, yes.
So Capeleb just took this
giant blast of ice cold
and he is a white giant ape
with auburn speckles
all over him, and as soon as
he takes that blast
and watches it skitter away,
he just (growling),
watches it go, and I also
see Beauregard run up.
So I'm going to arc slowly
in a circle around
to the side of this tiny-ass,
motherfucking monster's face.
I'm not going to use both hands,
I'm going to go (roaring grunts).
MATT: Just going to
cartoon Popeye wind up?
Hell yeah.
(laughs)
Go for it.
LIAM: First attack is a--
18 to hit.
MATT: 18 hits.
Fjord, you're on deck.
LIAM: Second is higher.
25 to hit.
MATT: Both hit, go ahead
and roll damage.
LIAM: Okay.
So the first one, first punch does--
MARISHA: (laughs)
LIAM: 25 for the first.
MATT: Nice.
LIAM: 10, 15.
21 for the second.
LAURA: That's so good.
LIAM: And then I'm just
going to breathe hard in its face
for the rest of my turn.
MATT: As you heavily breathe,
it breathes back,
the slobber extending with that same
white-blue blood pouring of its mouth.
It's looking pretty hurt.
All right.
That finishes your turn, Caleb.
Fjord, you're up.
Yasha, you're on deck.
TRAVIS: I will move up so
that I have a line of sight
so I can see him, even if
it's only a square or two
that is needed.
MATT: You can get about
there and you can have
a very clear view of it.
As Beauregard is defensively
handling herself
below it into the side,
the giant ape
is just pummeling it
into the wall repeatedly.
TRAVIS: Excellent.
I will take the Glove of Blasting out
that hasn't seen some action in a minute.
LIAM: Throwback.
TRAVIS: And I will fire
three rays of fire into its chest.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: Three!
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Roll for an attack on each.
TRAVIS: That's 25 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: Second one is 16 to hit.
MATT: 16 misses.
TRAVIS: Okay, and the
third one is 22 to hit.
MATT: Two of them hit,
so that's 4d6, I believe?
TRAVIS: It's 2d6.
MATT: Each hit.
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: So two of them hit,
so it's 4d6 total.
TRAVIS: That is six--
And five.
So 11, 11 points of fire damage.
MATT: Doubled to 22.
Fjord, how do you want to do this?
ALL: Hey!
TRAVIS: I'll just take the glove and go:
(clicking) Pew pew!
(laughter)
LIAM: Two throwbacks.
MATT: (laughs)
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: As you pull the glove
and the blasts go free,
one of them just manages
to miss as it pulls back
from the blow that the
giant ape Caleb had knocked into it.
The other two impact
the side of its neck
and the middle of
its belly, and as it does,
the flames catch,
and it begins to shriek
as you watch its flesh begin to burn.
It backs up all the way into the corner,
trying to look out and defend itself
from the pain that it's feeling,
but the flames are
too bright and it cannot see
and you watch it thrash for a bit
before it slowly just stops
moving in the flames,
its body just burns in the far corner.
TRAVIS: Yasha?
ASHLEY: Well, it's dead.
SAM: You better stab it again.
TRAVIS: That never stopped you before.
ASHLEY: I'll fucking stab it.
(laughter)
SAM: Wait, last time you
stabbed, another one showed up.
Maybe that's what did it.
ASHLEY: Too late.
Okay, that total would be--
19.
MATT: 19.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
That hits.
Roll damage.
LIAM: It's me, the third creature
in this open relationship.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: How close am I?
TRAVIS: Out comes its child,
like, "Mom, Dad?"
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Don't know where
I am on the map, there we go.
MATT: We'll say you can get over there.
ASHLEY: I'll just, like,
you know, since it's already dead,
I'll just, like, poke it.
MATT: Okay.
You're poking through
the flames, by the way.
Its body is engulfed
in fire at the moment.
ASHLEY: Great.
MATT: And you're like--
ASHLEY: Just half-heartedly.
MATT: Okay.
All right.
ASHLEY: Let me--
TRAVIS: Add it up.
ASHLEY: Okay.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: You roll it. You add it.
SAM: Dead.
MARISHA: (like Ashley) Okay.
ASHLEY: Let's go with 25.
MATT: Sure.
(laughter)
Okay, stabbing through
the crackling flames,
its body just goes more and more limp
as it eventually expires.
All right, does that finish your turn?
ASHLEY: Well.
Maybe I better prep for,
you know, another one.
TRAVIS: Oh, we're still in initiative?
ASHLEY: We're still in initiative.
TRAVIS: I was fucking around.
SAM: Mean nothing.
ASHLEY: I'm going to hold my
action, the rest of my turn,
can you do that?
MATT: Well, you've already
done your action to attack, so.
ASHLEY: My second action, can I hold?
MATT: Nah.
TRAVIS: Second breakfast?
ASHLEY: Yeah, second breakfast?
I'll stay.
MATT: Okay, there is a
giant gorilla next to you.
ASHLEY: I'll give him a little scritch.
MATT: Okay.
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
Top of the combat round, back to Veth.
As you and Caduceus quietly
keep yourselves there and
engage the tension there,
looking around the chamber, the silence,
other than the crackling of the flames
of the second creature
burning in the corner.
Moment passes.
A few more.
You begin to loosen up a bit,
feeling that perhaps
whatever this encounter
was has come to a close.
LIAM: A fart like a Mack truck
comes out of the ape.
LAURA: No.
TRAVIS: Is there any brown mold
in this hallway?
For the fire?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: 18.
LAURA: Oh, you sneaky, sneaky bastard.
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: 21.
There is a bunch of black mold
on the back edge
of this hallway that
you can rapidly see now
is shifting in towards the flames
from the corners of the
wall, and you watch
as it begins to move inward,
the fire that has
engulfed the creature
begins to be snuffed out.
Something is consuming the heat
from it as the mold expands.
TRAVIS: Gotta move.
SAM: Gotta move?
This was supposed to
be our ambush point.
TALIESIN: Later.
SAM: Later!?
TALIESIN: Moving on.
SAM: Moving on!?
LAURA: What, moving on?
The more we fight, the more
we're going to just get hurt.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
This is a crap ambush point, by the way.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: Not this hallway, the big one
that we just came from.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
We should at least
get out of this room
while the the brown mold's
doing its thing.
LAURA: This is a really
bad ambush place?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Why?
TRAVIS: Because it's a crossfire.
LAURA: Oh.
Okay.
MARISHA: ♪ You'll get
caught up in the-- ♪
MATT: ♪ Crossfire ♪
All righty.
SAM: ♪ You'll get caught up in the ♪
MARISHA: Okay.
But there is another
big chamber that we moved out of.
We're like-- this is
just the hall chamber.
MATT: Correct.
A number of minutes back that way
is the large chamber
you guys had dropped into
with the fallen tower, and--
LIAM: That's where we had talked about--
MATT: That's where you were discussing--
LIAM: -- setting a sigil, land in.
MARISHA: Right.
TALIESIN: In my opinion,
we set the sigil
and keep moving down to
see what this place is.
We end up chasing them,
I don't want to be surprised.
MARISHA: The sigil's the one--
Jester said sigil's the one that we want
to make sure we're there for.
We could set the intuit charges
if we feel like
we can continue to set
traps along the way.
I feel like it almost starts
with intuit charges--
Intuit? Inuit.
MATT: No, intuit.
MARISHA: Intuit.
LIAM: Not Inuit.
MARISHA: Definitely not that.
Yeah, okay.
Intuit charges, and then ending with,
you know, the big thing that you have.
I'm distracted now.
LAURA: Symbol.
MARISHA: Symbol.
MATT: (like Rafiki) Symbol.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Reminded me of a thing.
TRAVIS: Member of indigenous people of Northern
Canada, parts of Greenland, and Alaska. Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
Yeah. (laughing)
TRAVIS: I was pretty sure I knew it.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: Okay, so what do we do?
We keep moving forward, or?
And the brown mold is on its
way here. It's coming in.
TALIESIN: Unless someone's got some ice.
LIAM: For clarity, which
direction is the brown mold
bleeding in from, from
where we came or from--
MATT: No, the brown mold
was what he saw
was actually piped up
in the corners here,
and it just expanded to swoop into
where the fire was.
As you step back, it doesn't follow you,
it just goes to where the
heat is of the flames.
Now you've walked through
a decent, like, you know,
beyond 10 feet from brown mold
and it didn't pursue
or didn't do any damage to you.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: That was what Essek
had burned that path
into the initial chamber.
And only when that flame happened
did it actually
move to encompass it.
So you gather, based on
the two interactions,
that body heat doesn't cause it to move,
it just causes it, if you get too close,
to try and absorb your heat.
It's open flame, extreme heat,
that causes it to actually
expand towards it.
TALIESIN: Ooh.
LAURA: Okay, so we can just
back away from the fire
and we'll be okay.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: The fire is out now,
and the brown mold
has expanded beneath and over the body,
and you can see now it just looks like
an awful moss man figure.
It's just covered in dark fuzz.
LAURA: All right.
TRAVIS: Shall we see what's beyond this?
SAM: I guess.
TRAVIS: We'll just get a look,
and then if we're like,
whoa, now it's getting real complicated,
we can set the booby and keep moving.
SAM: Okay, okay.
LAURA: We can set the booby. Let's do it.
SAM: Okay.
ASHLEY: I like that idea.
LAURA: So we're going to
walk forward through the
non-deady-endy hallway.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: Once the group
clears out of the way,
Capeleb's going to grab
the mate by the tail
and drag it and shove it
in with its dead partner.
MARISHA: That's a good idea.
LIAM: In the side portion.
MATT: Okay, good call.
LIAM: And as legs keep
spilling back out.
He's like (grunts).
(laughter)
(groaning)
TRAVIS: (groaning)
ASHLEY: Stay in there.
LIAM: Caleb, Caleb, Caleb!
ASHLEY: He's good. He's in there.
TALIESIN: Go to sleep.
MATT: All righty.
Could I have a marching order
as you all continue onward?
TRAVIS: Can we see brown mold
on our path ahead of us?
Do we need Essek to--
LAURA: Or just avoid it in 10-foot--
MATT: He himself has gathered
his breath and goes,
"I am willing to carve anything we see,
"just point it out to me.
"I have it at my disposal.
"This is a very rudimentary--"
SAM: You can say "cantrip,"
we understand magic.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "Cantrip."
LIAM: Capeleb walks over and palms
Essek's almost entire torso.
(grunts)
MATT: "(startled) Ah."
LAURA: Oh, Caleb--
MATT: "(startled groaning)"
LIAM: He looks over at Caduceus.
(grunts)
MATT: "Whoa.
"(shouting)"
TALIESIN: I'm aware,
I'm just waiting for a moment
where you're back to normal.
It's just easier for me to do everybody.
MATT: "If you don't--"
LIAM: Holds out to Jester. (grunting)
LAURA: Yes, I understand.
Put him down, Caleb.
MATT: Pats the finger, goes like,
"You can put me down, Caleb, please.
"(grunts)"
TALIESIN: Well, that works, too.
MATT: He's like clutching. "(moaning)"
LAURA: He doesn't think
clearly when he's an animal.
MATT: "Evidently!"
MARISHA: You look really
cool up there, though.
MATT: "Thanks?"
MARISHA: Yeah, it's a good look.
TRAVIS: -- giant ape, this is great.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Once we're somewhere else
where we can take 10 minutes,
you can finally do that
and I can finally do
what I need to do to
bring everybody up.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Whoever needs it.
MATT: What's the marching order?
There's about a 25-plus space here.
So you can go as a group if you want to,
or you can go in any sort of line
up to like four in a row,
if you want to, your call.
LAURA: I mean, I could try
to take another 10 minutes
and do it right now.
MATT: You can.
LAURA: In the little alcove over there.
SAM: Try Commune to ask
some questions, is that right?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: One of them was--
SAM: Oh yeah, they were good, too.
LAURA: Yeah, they were.
Is there another doorway
in the courtyard?
MARISHA: Right.
LAURA: That leads to the Somnovem.
TALIESIN: Have they beaten
us here, I think was--
LAURA: Have they already gotten here?
MARISHA: And where they are,
right? Or if they're behind.
LAURA: I can't ask that,
because it has to be yes or no.
Have they already gotten here?
And, depending on the answer
to the first question,
is the Somnovem Ward straight ahead?
TRAVIS: Are they within 12 hours of us?
LAURA: Ooh.
MARISHA: That's a good one.
LAURA: Okay, well that could be
the second, the other followup.
TRAVIS: 24 hours.
SAM: That could be in
front or behind us, though.
TRAVIS: True.
SAM: That doesn't help.
LAURA: Hmm.
TRAVIS: If they're no
in front of us, though.
LAURA: I could also ask
if Ikithon is within--
is following us here
too, if he's close by.
SAM: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Good questions.
SAM: You want to do your--
LAURA: I mean, I can try.
Should we all like, bunker down
in this little alcove on the other side
away from the--
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: -- moldies?
You were on that side,
there was no mold there.
TRAVIS: We could go into the other room,
someone stands guard with
you while you set up,
and then we can still
explore at the same time,
since it takes 10 minutes.
SAM: That's fair.
LAURA: Sure.
I just am afraid there's
going to be another giant monster
once we walk down this
hallway, but sure.
SAM: Someone will stay--
LAURA: Okay, yeah.
You want to stay?
All right, let's chill and they walk.
TRAVIS: We move forward.
MATT: All right, who's moving forward?
TRAVIS: I think we're
following Grape Ape.
SAM: But some people are
staying behind with Jester?
LIAM: Yeah, you two are staying behind?
TRAVIS: We're all going
into the next space.
LIAM: Oh, I thought Jester
was talking about
doing it right here.
LAURA: Yeah, I was saying--
TRAVIS: Oh, sure, either one.
LAURA: Yeah, that's what I was saying.
MARISHA: Let's just wait 10 minutes.
Anytime we wander off in the middle--
TALIESIN: Let's wait 10 minutes,
because then
I can also heal some people.
LIAM: Yeah, it didn't go
so well on the fire plane.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Just an extra
three minutes on the fire plane
would've made a world of difference.
LAURA: It's so fast,
I'm just going to do the ritual,
and da-da-da, 10 minutes go by.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to
heal a bunch of people, too.
ASHLEY: Da-da-da-da.
TALIESIN: Who needs healing really badly?
MATT: "If you do not mind." (chuckles)
SAM: I wouldn't say no, but--
LAURA: I mean, I could
use some, if you want to
throw it on me while I'm--
TRAVIS: I need some.
TALIESIN: Four, one, two, three, four--
SAM: And Essek?
TALIESIN: Five, Essek's in there.
MATT: "Mm-hmm."
TALIESIN: Well, I'll wait
for you and I'll do you
special later, because you've got--
ASHLEY: Oh, wow.
TALIESIN: And I'll get myself,
so okay, that's one, two, three,
four, five, six,
so you're fine, I assume.
Or--
ASHLEY: I mean, technically,
I could be okay.
TALIESIN: Okay.
We'll work on you too later.
Okay, so everyone takes--
LIAM: If we take a short rest,
I'll drop it now.
LAURA: That takes an hour.
LIAM: I know, I know.
TALIESIN: That's pretty good.
LIAM: If we did, I would.
LAURA: Right.
LIAM: Because I can't
use any magic right now.
I'm just a big dummy.
LAURA: Right.
TALIESIN: That's 23 points to--
I rolled real well.
To--
TRAVIS: Thank you.
LIAM: Still smarter than Grog.
TALIESIN: Everyone--
MATT: "Much appreciated, Mr. Clay."
TALIESIN: Any time.
Just trying to pick
everybody up a little.
SAM: Thank you, Mr. Clay.
TALIESIN: In this together.
MATT: All right. And you're Communing
and who's keeping watch?
ASHLEY: I can keep watch.
MATT: Okay, well whoever
wants to roll for perception,
go for it.
TALIESIN: I can't because I'm casting.
MATT: Well, it's over a 10-minute period.
TALIESIN: Oh.
MATT: How long is your casting for that?
TALIESIN: 10 minute.
MATT: Oh yeah, so you're casting,
so you can't.
So somebody else has to.
TRAVIS: Beau, you want to?
Does your perception suck?
MARISHA: It's not great, but I can.
I'll assist you.
TRAVIS: Great.
SAM: Yasha said she was going--
MARISHA: Oh, Yasha--
MATT: Well then, Yasha,
you go, and then you go.
ASHLEY: No, you just rolled.
MATT: He rolled once.
TRAVIS: I rolled once.
ASHLEY: And then I roll once.
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Hopefully you
did better than I did.
TRAVIS: 16.
ASHLEY: Yeah, 16 for me, too.
MATT: Oh.
All right.
As two of your compatriots are finishing
their short-term rituals,
glancing around the space,
you can hear that very faint
sound of the brown mold--
shifting.
You glance over. It's not
moving closer or expanding.
It's just continuing its
covering of the body,
including the one you threw over there.
LAURA: That's great.
But it stays put.
You don't hear anything else.
You feel pretty
comfortable and confident
that at the moment, things are still.
You are attempting a--
LAURA: Commune.
MATT: Commune.
All righty.
So as you finish your ritual,
you sit there quietly
with your eyes closed, and once again,
hear the gentle voice in your ear.
Left ear.
(as the Traveler) "Yes, my dear."
LAURA: (gasps) I'm so glad you're here!
Okay, I have some questions for you.
If you can just take a little
gander around, all right?
MATT: "I'll do my best."
LAURA: Can you float into the courtyard
and see if there's any other entryways
that we missed back there
that could potentially
lead to the Somnovem?
Or that do lead to the Somnovem Ward,
because you know, you're all-knowing.
MATT: "I'm confused as
to what you're asking.
"What is your question?"
LAURA: Back in the courtyard?
You know, the icy room with
all of the black, the brown--
MATT: "Right, yes, yes."
LAURA: Were there any other,
like, hallways, entrances
that we missed that led
to the Somnovem Ward?
MATT: "In that chamber?
"No, that seemed pretty standard
fare of one way to go."
LAURA: Okay, okay, that's good.
Because we didn't explore it completely.
MATT: "No, no, of course not."
LAURA: Okay.
I have a second question for you.
MATT: "Mm-hmm."
LAURA: The Tomb Takers.
MATT: "Oh yes, those strange folk, go on."
LAURA: Are they--
Less than a day behind us?
MATT: "Seems about right, yeah."
LAURA: (quietly) Fuck.
SAM: Less than a day.
Could mean one minute.
MARISHA: Way to combo that question.
That was good.
Yeah, it was good.
MATT: "They are eager beavers, them."
LAURA: They suck.
MATT: "(chuckles)"
LAURA: And we're doing
all the killing for them.
Last question.
What do you think?
This is not a question for you.
This is a question for them.
MATT: "I'll just wait."
You can just hear the
voice in your ear again.
LAURA: Should I ask him about Ikithon?
Or should I ask him about, like,
how far deeper is the
Somnovem Ward sort of shit?
TRAVIS: That's not a yes or no.
LAURA: Yeah, I could try to
frame it like yes or no, though.
TALIESIN: I think Ikithon's the way--
I think we're going to hit
where we're going to hit
and knowing that we're,
you know, we're moving.
LIAM: (grunts)
LAURA: Ikithon?
(grunting)
He's an ape.
(laughter)
MATT: "Apparently."
TRAVIS: You.
MATT: Make a
perception check. (laughing)
LIAM: 21.
MATT: 21.
Oh man, it's hard to do whispers here.
SAM: Text it.
LAURA and MATT: (laugh)
MATT: I'm doing that.
SAM: Text it, but use
Siri to dictate it.
(laughter)
LIAM: Did I spot giant banana?
Yes or no?
TRAVIS: Brendan Fraser.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: How should I phrase this?
Ikithon is following us, yeah?
So is he...
also...
(squeaking)
(laughter)
MATT: "I'm sorry, I didn't get that.
"What was the question?"
TALIESIN: You mumbled your question.
(laughter)
LAURA: You know how when
you had an essay due
and you didn't know
how to spell something,
so you'd write in
cursive sloppily
and hope that they thought
that you knew how to spell it?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Nope.
SAM: Nope, not at all.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: That's smart, though.
Everything else is in
plain text except for--
LAURA: La-la-la-la.
LAURA: Trent Ikithon and crew.
MATT: "Mm-hmm."
LAURA: Are they...
like, going to catch up
to the Tomb Takers and us
in the next 24 hours or so?
That's a terrible question.
MATT: "Um..."
(laughter)
LAURA: What do you think,
what do you think?
I mean, you can see them, I'm sure.
Wherever they are.
MATT: "What, do you think
I'm a god or something?"
LAURA: Well, you have so many powers.
Like, I know you can play around--
MATT: "I do, you're not
wrong, but-- (sighs)
"Pieces are moving at
different speeds, my darling.
"It's, um...
"I mean, they certainly
seem intent on you,
"but I don't see them
quite hot on your heels."
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Well, that's good to know too, okay.
Cool.
Do you want to hang out
with us for a while?
We're just going to be--
MATT: "No, I'll just keep
an eye from a distance."
You just keep hearing
the voice whispering.
As it does.
LAURA: All right.
Feel free to save us
if we all start to die.
MATT: "I will, don't worry."
LAURA: Okay.
We're fine, you guys, we're safe.
Artie's got our back.
SAM: So they're almost here.
LAURA: He said they were within a day.
SAM: Which could mean--
LAURA: It could mean, like,
two hours from now.
SAM: Moments.
LAURA: It could mean, you know,
it could mean
if we went to sleep
right now, we could all
get a full night's rest.
SAM: Should we radio the guards?
Just make sure they answer.
What if they're all dead?
TRAVIS: Sure.
MARISHA: That's a good idea.
ASHLEY: That is a good idea.
SAM: Oh, Essek has the stone, right?
MATT: He pulls the stone out.
"This is Shadowhand.
I am inquiring as to--"
TRAVIS: Ooh!
MATT: "The exterior perimeter."
SAM: Shadowhand to Woodchuck.
Shadowhand to Woodchuck.
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: Woodchuck.
MATT: "They haven't seen anything yet.
"They are keeping a very close watch,
"but it seems to be
clear at the moment."
TRAVIS: Should've given
them a code word.
That's not the rangers.
SAM: Mmm.
LAURA: Ooh.
SAM: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
MATT: "I don't think it's that deep."
TRAVIS: (laughs)
LAURA: All right.
TALIESIN: Keep heading down.
LAURA: I guess so.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Want to set the booby,
you want to keep heading down?
TALIESIN: Say let's set the booby,
then keep heading down.
ASHLEY: How many boobies do we have?
TALIESIN: Just one.
LAURA: Just the one booby.
SAM: Oh, we found out that
we just have one booby?
I thought it was two?
TRAVIS: Well, Jester has one--
LAURA: I have one booby.
TRAVIS: -- thing, one charge.
SAM: Don't we have,
as a group, we have more
than one booby, right?
LAURA: Yes, but--
TRAVIS: There are three or four here.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: If you set off one booby,
though, correct me if I'm wrong.
I'm an ape, this is Liam talking.
One booby could potentially knock out,
you know, like a hunk of
somebody's total hit points.
But if it's the only booby going off,
then they'll just use
some hit dice and refill.
Wouldn't you want to chain them so
that they could potentially
max out over their totals?
LAURA: Yeah, I think all of the
boobies in the same area
is the best plan, rather than
little by little.
MARISHA: So is that all of the boobies,
including us ambushing?
LAURA: Yes, I think so.
MARISHA: Boobs then ambush?
LAURA: I think all the boobies we hide.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: But that's just me.
MARISHA: Are we scouting
forward a little bit more?
TALIESIN: I would scout forward a little.
TRAVIS: Let's do it. Let's keep going.
ASHLEY: I think we should.
MATT: "Very well. Lead on."
What is the order?
SAM: Alphabetical.
MATT: Okay.
(laughter)
MATT: Ape.
LIAM: Capeleb with Essek
on his shoulders still,
unless Essek wanted to hop off.
MATT: No, Essek has given
into his fate at the moment.
TRAVIS: Jane.
LAURA: Beau.
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: (laughs)
Beau, Caduceus.
LAURA: Fjord.
MATT: Fjord,
Jester, Veth, and Yasha.
I remembered my letters!
(cheering)
LAURA: I think this is a
good order, honestly.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's actually not bad.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: Minus the traps
that Capeleb is definitely
not going to find.
MATT: Well, we'll get to that.
LIAM: Well, Essek's there.
MATT: All right.
So continuing down the extended hall,
you can see some of the little pockets
in the sides where some of these
creatures had been traveling.
There's little gaps in the
wall, like side ducting,
where you can see it's broken
and their space has been
pushed through by where they move.
But the hallway continues and
then begins into an incline.
TRAVIS: Hmm.
MATT: About 150 or so feet
in from this intersection.
LIAM: I'll add in, too,
Capeleb-- this is not
the dumbest Caleb has
ever been as an animal.
So I'm going slow.
He's going like-- (ape grunting)
LAURA: Apes are very smart.
LIAM: Yeah. He's going
real slow and putting a
toe out and feeling,
and waiting a second,
and then going because
he is scared of blowing up.
MATT: Essek has maneuvered behind to keep
any sort of blast radius
between-- with ape between.
Progressing towards where
it begins to incline,
you can see the incline was not natural.
The metallic ceiling above
seems to have crinkled upward.
Like what was once a
straight path has been shoved
and bent into an upward angle.
And as it continues
upward, it is uneven.
The impact and damage of the city seems
to have completely offset what
was once a straight path,
but it continues at about
a 45-degree angle upward.
The frost and ice making it a
somewhat precarious climb.
Though you can use the rubble and bits
of exposed materials
to try and aid you up.
But it is a bit of a climb.
Do you continue to try and climb up?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: I would like everyone to
make an athletics check, please.
LIAM: (ape grunting)
Capeleb can take another
rider or two, probably.
MARISHA: I'm assuming I'm
not still blessed, right?
Oh, oh, that's--
TRAVIS: 11.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, Bless is over.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Athletics?
TALIESIN: Give myself
some Guidance, though.
MATT: All right. So 11?
LAURA: I did not give
myself Guidance. So six.
MATT: Six.
LIAM: 20.
MATT: 20?
SAM: 20 also over here.
MATT: For athletics? Nice.
SAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: It has to be
athletics, not acrobatics?
MATT: Yes, for this.
TALIESIN: Okay.
ASHLEY: 18.
MATT: 18. Nice.
Yeah, this is a very, very,
very smooth, icy, slick surface.
Acrobatics will not help you.
Beauregard.
MARISHA: 19.
MATT: 19. All right.
This is a bit of a challenge
and most of you managed
to begin to make the
climb, as hard as it is,
leaping from section
of exposed rubble
to heavy metal bars
that are bent outward
and using those to get ahead.
Those that rolled lower than a 15,
you do stumble back
as you lose your grip
and lose about 30 or 40 feet upward
and do take a little
bit of impact damage.
12 points of bludgeoning damage.
TRAVIS: That's not nothing.
MATT: For those of you that
low rolled lower than a 15.
LIAM: Soften, soften.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
LAURA: Yep. Yep.
LIAM: Death by a thousand cuts.
MATT: Everyone who failed,
I need you to roll again.
MARISHA: Oh shit, y'all.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: Guidance.
TRAVIS: 25.
MATT: 25, all righty.
LAURA: Oh! 15.
MATT: 15, all righty.
And who else failed?
TALIESIN: 12.
MATT: 12.
MARISHA: Cad...
TALIESIN: Bad at this.
MATT: Two of you managed to,
working in tandem,
get up there a bit.
And as you get towards
the rest of the group,
most of the way up to
where you can see
it begins to turn off
and open the hallway.
This is like a 200-foot
climb at this angle,
just this ice-filled,
broken, awkward chamber.
Caduceus, you slide back again.
You don't fall,
don't go back quite
as much this time
as you've navigated this
now for a second time.
But you do take four points
of bludgeoning damage.
Not too bad.
TALIESIN: Ow.
LIAM: Caleb's going to dodge
people and hop down and just
scoop him up and put him
over his other shoulder.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MATT: Essek's going to, actually,
as you begin moving down,
Essek's going to be like, "Go ahead,"
and just leaps off and is
hovering above the ice,
unaffected by the slickness.
LIAM: (ape grunting)
MATT: Go ahead and make your check
for me please with your ape.
LIAM: 18.
MATT: 18.
With that, the whole group
manages to get to the very top
of this incline where it
begins to even out slightly,
still at a faint incline,
but no longer at that full,
challenging upward climb.
MARISHA: While I'm moving ahead,
can I just have an eye out for
any other signs of whoever
moved through here last?
I know it was the
Tomb Takers and Vess, but--
MATT: Sure, make a perception check.
MARISHA: Any signs of activity.
MATT: You have your goggles back on?
MARISHA: I think I got my
goggles back from Veth, yeah.
MATT: Yeah, and for
those who do not have
darkvision, there should
be a light source
or you are having
a much harder time.
TRAVIS: ♪ My sword is out ♪
MARISHA: 16.
16.
MATT: 16.
MARISHA: It's okay.
MATT: Hard pressed to see
much in here with the angle.
There isn't, like, fresh snow.
So you would imagine
you could probably
take a moment and really inspect,
but at the at the
challenge of this space,
it's really difficult to
track anything like that.
But once you get to a more smooth
area, you can have a look.
MARISHA: Yeah, okay.
MATT: So cresting at the
end of this hallway,
you can see there's a
collapsed gap in the hall
before it opens up
into another lightless chamber
ahead of you about a 15--
like 12- to 15-foot gap
where it just drops
about 20 or so feet before
it comes to a gradual close.
Like a miniature chasm.
MARISHA: 20 feet?
MATT: About 12 to 15 feet across.
MARISHA: Oh, 12 to 15?
MATT: Not too bad.
For most people.
MARISHA: Can we see to
the other side?
MATT: With the light
source you can have,
and then you can see that it drops off
and opens up into a
chamber with no light.
MARISHA: And how deep is the chasm?
MATT: That's about 20 or so feet.
MARISHA: Okay, so it's not--
MATT: It's not deadly or
anything. It's just annoying.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: "Not deadly"
is code for "deadly."
MARISHA: So you want me to
take a look on the other side?
SAM: What is it, 15--
It's a 15-foot jump?
MATT: Yeah, about 12 to 15 feet.
MARISHA: I can do that.
SAM: We could make,
like, a human bridge.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
MARISHA: Hmm.
We could.
LAURA: Or Beau can hold onto
some rope and jump across.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Okay.
Yeah, go.
MARISHA: Okay. I'll drop some
of the hemp ropes that I have,
take one end, take a nice
running-- and then--
MATT: Go ahead and make an
athletics check for me.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Banana peel!
MATT: This negates the
challenge of this--
MARISHA: ♪ A natural 20! ♪
MATT: Without issue.
Even with the slickness
of the floor here,
you don't even leap across,
you jump off the wall
and find yourself
wall running on the
opposite side without issue.
MARISHA: That's a good idea.
That's exactly what I do.
(laughter)
MATT: Natural 20,
I'll spruce that up a bit.
I'll throw some spice in.
Easy enough to do.
And the only one who
would have a challenge
using the rope would be
you in your ape form,
but in ape form,
you can practically
step across it almost.
LIAM: I can leap it. It's 20 feet across?
MATT: No, it's 12 to 15 feet. You can--
LIAM: Yeah, with a 10-foot
run, I can clear it.
MATT: Super easy.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: So.
LIAM: (ape grunts)
SAM: So are we all going across?
Or no, you're going to
scout it out first.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'll do a
quick, goggles-on visual pass
now that I'm on this
side, that I'm closer.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: He won't know what hit him.
MARISHA: Anything--? Okay.
MATT: Once across this gap--
SAM and ASHLEY: Oh boy.
MATT: -- the hallway
levels out slightly and ends.
And opens into an
incredibly massive chamber,
challenging to gauge
in size because there
is a limit to your darkvision,
but there is some light in here.
It's hard to tell distance.
These little specks.
A thousand feet across? More?
SAM: Whoa.
MATT: This is a
gargantuan cavern network
that you're within,
or a massive space beneath.
LAURA: (whispering) That's
where it disappeared.
MATT: You can see, filling this
space below where you stand,
a network of glimpses of a
sprawling, broken cityscape,
faintly lit by a smattering
of still-glowing luminescent,
blue and blue-green lights.
Like a rolling field of
fireflies laying still.
You can make out pockets of shapes
like structures and towers,
some leaning, some fallen into
what appear to be streets.
You get the sense that
this is the entrance
to the Praesidis Ward
and beyond, part of this
long-buried necropolis
that is Aeor.
MARISHA: Praesidis Ward. Okay.
Do I see anything that I
can anchor this rope to?
MATT: There are weird
damaged bits of the wall
and heavy stones you can
definitely affix this to.
MARISHA: Okay. I'll tie it off.
MATT: Okay.
With that help, one by one,
you guys can make your way
across the gap without major issue.
LAURA: What's at the bottom of the gap
if we look down?
Anything we can see?
MATT: No, it looks like
when it bent downward,
it snapped open and
left this gap below
that eventually comes to
an end, like the actual--
the base foundation of this
hallway then cracked open
and left this gap.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Yeah, then we'll follow.
MATT: All right.
You guys are all across,
and you see what
Beauregard had just seen.
Just a faint outline.
I mean, it's hard to see
with the light of the sword
that close by to adjust,
but if you darken it ever so
slightly and those who cannot
see in the dark let their eyes adjust.
You can see this massive, rolling,
unnaturally scattered city.
Mostly in shadow, with just those little
points of blue and blue-green
light thrown about.
LIAM: Is the blue-green light
similar or identical
to what was thrown off
by the bubbles of people
we found in the other Aeor ruins?
MATT: The blue-green, no.
LIAM: No?
MATT: The blue could very well be.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: And you see
hundreds throughout here
and just enough light,
just enough light pollution
from these sources,
to just basically outline
the somewhat jagged,
cragulous ceiling of
this chamber as well.
But you see a whole
section of the city below.
SAM: And the hallway that
opened out into this space,
how wide and big is that opening?
MATT: It's about 25 feet across
and about 20 feet tall.
SAM: Okay.
Is this a better ambush point?
MARISHA: I don't know.
SAM: Or fill back where we were?
TALIESIN: Certainly a
better place to hide.
MARISHA: Well, let's go check it out.
There might be
more opportunities for...
SAM: The whole thing?!
MARISHA: I don't know.
TALIESIN: Let's see what it's about.
SAM: I'm just worried that
they're going to be on our six.
I guess we have a radio, right?
TALIESIN: We do.
SAM: Okay.
How long does it take to
set the intuit charge?
LIAM: A minute if it's successful.
I'll double check that,
but I think that's what it is.
TRAVIS: There was a caveat.
It has to be a 20 arcane.
LIAM: Yeah. It's got to
be me-- Well, you have a
high arcana, too, right?
TRAVIS: Otherwise it becomes inert for 24 hours.
MARISHA: I have an okay arcana.
LIAM: Yeah. One minute,
spend one minute,
make a DC 20 intelligence arcana check.
SAM: So if they radioed us right now,
we could run back and set them probably.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Hmm.
LAURA: Maybe.
TRAVIS: Not at this point.
That would be the--
TALIESIN: We're pretty sure
they're not hot on our trail.
That was why we did the
Commune in the first place.
LIAM: But it's less than-- you asked
less than a certain amount of time.
SAM: Less than a day.
LIAM: Could be 20 minutes,
or it could be 23 hours.
We're also assuming we're
absolutely going to--
(ape grunting)
-hear from our spies,
but they could get iced.
MARISHA: A hundred percent, yeah.
LIAM: And picking--
(whooshing) Sorry, I had an
idea and I had to share it.
Oh. Caleb immediately sits
down on the ground, exhausted.
Maybe if we move past this point
and we tried to set
the boobies past here,
there's so many different
directions they can run
and scatter where things
are a little more contained.
Behind us is maybe is worth considering.
Could we take a break?
SAM: Like a short rest?
LIAM: I'm not doing very well.
SAM: Oh no.
LAURA: Oh, that's right.
He was really injured
before he turned into an ape.
SAM: Sure.
TRAVIS: ♪ Got to pick some
cover with some distance ♪
♪ and a vantage point. ♪
So let's go in further, and
then take that short rest.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Because we're just
at the mouth of this thing.
TALIESIN: I'm right on you.
I'm going to stay right towards you.
If anything looks
sketchy, I'm going to--
LIAM: Maybe I'll walk
by you for a while.
TALIESIN: Yeah. That's not a bad idea.
MARISHA: Let's move through here.
Very quietly, very stealthy.
We don't want to get into
another fight and ideally
we want to leave behind
some monsters for them.
SAM: Yeah, sure.
Leave only footprints.
Take only memories.
TRAVIS: Ooh. Wow.
TALIESIN: Actually, don't leave footprints.
MARISHA: That's deep.
Did you write that?
SAM: I did.
MARISHA: Wow.
SAM: Yeah.
But also don't leave footprints.
TALIESIN: And if you leave memories,
then people are going
to talk about you.
SAM: That's true.
TALIESIN: I mean, that's--
LAURA: Let's see.
ASHLEY: Quite profound.
MATT: So what's the plan?
LAURA: The healing kit only
stabilizes somebody that's down?
It doesn't heal any?
MATT: Correct.
You can take a feat to actually heal
hit points with the healing kit.
LAURA: I see. Okay.
SAM: So yeah, I guess we'll just go
into the city and look around?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: It's big!
MATT: It's very big.
You can begin the
process, if you want to.
MARISHA: Walk down the
main thoroughfare.
TRAVIS: How high is the ceiling of this
giant, thousand-foot cavern?
MATT: Just at a glance,
you'd say at places
it's anywhere from 60
to a hundred more feet tall.
TRAVIS: Yeah, fucker's big.
And if it's a thousand feet deep,
roughly how wide?
MATT: You don't even
know how deep it is.
You're guessing.
Because right now, with
just the very faint bit
of light that you can see,
it's very hard to really
get depth perception
in this space.
TALIESIN: Let's find a
house to hide in, maybe,
and stay off the main road.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: We could do
something like that. Find a house,
and then always have a scouting party
if we don't want to send everybody in.
LIAM: And I don't think
we should go too far.
The deeper in we get, it's
two people trying to sync up
inside of Rexxentrum.
LAURA: They could pass right by us
and we wouldn't even know.
LIAM: Correct.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you've lost
all advantage at that point.
LIAM: Correct.
TRAVIS: You got two people
in a maze instead of one
looking down on the other.
LIAM: Ja.
MARISHA: Okay. Is there a house?
If we start coming in,
is there even a guard post,
or a house or something?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: All right.
TALIESIN: I'll join you in that.
MARISHA: Thank you, Caddy!
MATT: Caduceus does not have darkvision.
TALIESIN: I don't have darkvision.
MATT: So you have
a disadvantage on this.
MARISHA: ♪ I rolled a natural one. ♪
TALIESIN: I rolled a 21.
MATT: Nice. Well, thank goodness!
LAURA: Those lights. He's used
to seeing firefly lights.
MARISHA: Mm, mm.
TALIESIN: I've been letting it
adjust over the last few minutes.
I know how darkvision works.
MATT: Beginning to pass this
threshold into this ward.
Beyond this tunnel, you can
see there are walls around
that once probably surrounded this ward.
Though many of them have fallen in or
themselves have had
things fall into them,
but not more than 30 or so feet inward,
you can see the beginning of what
may have been a neighborhood.
There are a dozen or so buildings
within this first section,
though most of them are fully collapsed.
You can see this edge
probably took the brunt
of the impact of the city,
and the city was built
to withstand a lot.
So the fact that even
this much is standing,
and isn't just a complete mess
is a testament to its
original construction
and/or protective wards at the time.
But even so, out of these
immediate vicinity structures,
you only see two that
haven't completely collapsed
that have any sort of
interior that you could
probably walk into with cover.
TALIESIN: How do they look?
MATT: Dubious. But you see one
that's a smaller building.
Maybe singular story,
may have a second story
that sheared off or fell.
The other one is
most of a second story,
but even that, you can only
see the wall is partial.
They have open windows and
one doorway is currently closed.
The doors still affixed. The other,
the door's been blown out.
TALIESIN: Door it is.
Are there any signs of
previous life? Are there any?
MATT: After looking out
around, you look down
and on the ground,
amongst the broken stone
and brick and shattered glass,
you can begin to see bodies.
You see skeletal bodies,
long mummified.
Many crushed in some
degree, others incinerated.
It looks like the
long-forgotten aftermath
of a cataclysm.
TALIESIN: Eyes of the Grave?
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Oh yeah. Oh, right.
Do you have to Speak to Dead prepared?
TALIESIN: I can do that, too,
but at the moment,
I'm doing a 60-foot sweep
for undead activity.
TRAVIS: There's three undead giants outside.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: As you extend your
consciousness into that space
between life and death,
you breathe a sigh of relief,
not sensing anything untoward
in between that space.
TRAVIS: Good thinking, though.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
Yeah. Let's scoot
everybody into this place.
Give it a little look through
and make sure it's clean and
nothing's nesting in it.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Caleb is going to,
with a bit of phosphorus in his hand,
taking a half beat longer than normal,
cast Dancing Lights
and bring globules out.
But for once they're
roughly the same color
as the blue that we can
see in the distance.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: So still glowing, but--
MATT: Right. But matching the coloration.
Okay. Fair enough. You all
follow towards this structure?
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Quietly.
MATT: You approach the outside
of it. It's, you know,
for the parts that are still standing
and aren't completely scuffed or
left to absolute ruin, well-made.
The arch of the door has
fine-carved filigree around it.
It gives you a glimpse
that you can imagine
one day, this was a very beautiful city.
A lot of thought and
effort went into just
the small details to beautify
some of these structures.
And this is a shameful
contrast juxtaposition between
the care that was
obviously put into this
and the complete destruction that it now
lays surrounded by and is part of.
The door is very fine wood.
But as you approach, you can see
that it's mostly off one of the hinges.
And while it still stands, not by much.
TALIESIN: Does anybody know
how to mend, out of curiosity?
LAURA: I do. I have Mending.
TALIESIN: Let's fix this joint
just so this thing doesn't
rattle and cause a problem,
maybe. I'll hold it up.
LAURA: I ready a cantrip.
MATT: Okay. You heard
this faint (creaking).
As it does, the metal seems
to pull out against itself.
And the broken hinge
re-tethers, pulls the door,
shifts right into place.
LAURA: Good thinking!
TALIESIN: I've always wanted
to learn how to do that.
I just don't have the--
LAURA: I could teach you!
TALIESIN: I'd love that because
my fingers hate that spell.
I don't know. It never works right.
LIAM: Just take a pottery class.
TALIESIN: You know, I've been
thinking about it so much.
LAURA: We'll take a pottery class
when all of this is over.
TALIESIN: There's an
annex that's over in--
I've been meaning to--
SAM: Is there anything in this house?
I will look around.
MATT: Pull the door open
and you begin to look around.
Go ahead and make a
perception or investigation check.
Your choice.
SAM: Investigation.
23.
MATT: 23, okay. As you
carefully make your way in
looking around the space
and beginning to inspect.
Indeed. Most of the second floor
fell inward because
you see there was a staircase
that would spiral upward,
but the staircase is
partially broken and fallen.
You can see the space
where it went up is now
filled with heavy wooden
support bars that are
just jammed ram-shod down
from the upper floor.
The interior here has
furniture scattered about.
And once again, it gives a
glimpse of what may have
been a nice family space.
You could see what looked
to be planters and
tables with decor on them
that have tipped over and shattered.
There's shards of pottery on the ground.
And you can see a number
of skeletal bodies
that are scattered amongst the rubble.
One does catch your attention,
a little different from
the other corpses,
similar to one that you had encountered
in one of the previous ruins.
It looks humanoid,
but you can see it pulled apart.
And at first glance, it's not
mummified like the others.
It's metallic with
intricate scrolling on it.
Where the joints would be,
you see a striated, dark material,
like a rubber-ish,
and it's just pulled apart,
and half of the upper floor collapse
has pinned and pulled it in twine.
You can see the head partially exposed.
And it looks like a human-sized head,
but the features--
it is a metallic smooth helmet
with features carved into it.
Sockets where eyes would be.
And a jaw that is pulled off.
SAM: Cool.
LIAM: Robits, y'all, robits.
SAM: Can I fish around in that
body for some shiny objects?
MATT: Sure.
SAM: For some gears,
or some cool tech.
MATT: Go for it.
Go ahead and make an
investigation check for that one.
SAM: Oh, even better. 28.
MATT: 28. It's easy enough to pull apart
the body, the upper area where
the metallic chest cavity would be.
It's partially already pried apart
from how it was destroyed.
And as you pick it off,
you can see in the center
of it, amongst all the--
it is an odd, odd combination
of arcane tethers and runic,
circular-affixed creations
that you're not--
you don't fully understand.
But a lot of it seems pulled and broken.
In the middle of it there is
a small orb. A smooth orb.
That just sits. It's untouched.
SAM: Like where the heart would be -ish?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Okay. I'm going to try to take that.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Underneath the ribs?
MATT: Yeah. When you pulled
the chest plate off
you can see it within there.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: So you go ahead and pull down and
it doesn't take too much.
You see that this chest plate
that was on front
was what was partially
holding it in place.
And the other half of its
exterior secure cavity
is now left open.
So you, with a little bit
of pulling and twisting,
(sucking gasp) pull it free.
There's just a little smooth crystal.
Doesn't seem to have any color to it.
It's opaque, a cloudy, opaque color,
white, I guess, if anything,
but just looks like a smooth sphere.
SAM: Caleb, when you feel better,
maybe you could identify this for me?
LIAM: Okay. Well, if
we stop for a while,
I can do that, certainly.
TALIESIN: I think this
is the place to take
just a little while to rest
and get you back to--
LIAM: Before we go any deeper?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Before we go any deeper.
ASHLEY: Wait, Caduceus, remember
you asked me for a skull head?
Do you think that would work with this?
TALIESIN: Well, that one
doesn't seem to have a jaw,
which is definitely a bit of a problem.
LAURA: Right, and it
doesn't have a soul,
potentially, either.
TALIESIN: Well, I mean, who knows?
LAURA: I don't know how
these things work.
TALIESIN: I don't know either.
SAM: Don't be judgemental!
TALIESIN: I would not say no to taking it with us.
LAURA: I don't know, do robots have souls?
SAM: What's a robit?
LAURA: I mean, that's a good point.
ASHLEY: Oh, this is the-- I got it.
TALIESIN and ASHLEY: This
is the Schwarzenegger.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
I would not say no to taking it, though.
SAM: The whole body?
LIAM: The heart.
LAURA: How would we carry it?
TALIESIN: It's true. We don't really--
LAURA: We don't have a bag
TALIESIN: -- way to carry.
LIAM: We do.
MARISHA: Would you want to still
do the talky thing with another?
TALIESIN: I can't do the talky
thing right now, I don't think.
TRAVIS: Is everyone inside the building?
TALIESIN: Thought I'd taken--
MATT: Everyone I believe, unless you--
TRAVIS: I will leave the
building and look outside.
SAM: Fjord, no!
LAURA: No, I was
thinking that was smart.
We should keep an eye on the
outside of the building.
TRAVIS: Just a sentry from
the direction we came.
MATT: Okay. All right.
So you're keeping watch?
LAURA: I'm going to give him
Guidance on the way out,
so that any-- I guess
for the next minute,
if you do a perception check,
you'll get an advantage.
MATT: All right. So everyone
is taking a short rest, then?
LIAM: Yes, please.
TRAVIS: Oh, well, I'm going to
take a short rest as well.
MATT: Yeah, well, you can take a short rest
while keeping an eye out.
TRAVIS: Great!
MARISHA: Yeah, okay.
LIAM: What've we got?
MATT: Essek's going to use
the last of his hit dice.
LIAM: Hit dice it is.
SAM: We're doing this?
We're doing a reals, a real--
LAURA: I guess so. Another.
TALIESIN: If you want to--
SAM: Wow.
LAURA: We're waiting an hour?
MARISHA: Okay. Yeah, I know.
Hoo, hoo, hoo!
LAURA: I wish I had a place that's--
MATT: Okay. Essek's hit dice are spent.
MARISHA: For Essek?
LAURA: It sucks because if I could take,
you know, if we could set the trap,
and then I could try
to get the long rest
I would get a 7th-level spell back.
This glyph is a 7th-level spell.
So it's like, I can do it,
but I also won't have a
big spell for a big fight.
If I can set it now and try to sleep.
MARISHA: And sleep?
LAURA: So if we can find
that ambush point stat,
then, you know, we could
potentially be in a better place.
LIAM: Need higher rolls.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: I know, it's just these
high level spells will come
in handy in a big fight. Potentially.
MARISHA: Well, we're going to need
to rest at some point, right?
I'm down with us just
continuing to stay fresh.
ASHLEY: Yeah. I think it's smart.
MARISHA: Okay. Hang on, wait on me.
LIAM: I've used all my
hit dice and I am not at full.
SAM: Oh no.
TALIESIN: Where are you at?
LIAM: 55 of 87.
SAM: Oof!
LAURA: Like, what's the
point of continuing on
and just finding more monsters
and a potential ambush point
when we know we can find something
in a place that we've
already been through?
LIAM: That would be my thinking.
TRAVIS: Yeah. We definitely
don't want to fight in here.
LAURA: No.
TRAVIS: We were in a-- yeah.
LIAM: Be good to know what
we might be fleeing toward.
TALIESIN: That was my thinking.
LIAM: But--
TALIESIN: With my last
question: what are those
blue and green lights, though?
LAURA: Like, Fjord, you fought
a lot of people in your time
at sea, right?
TRAVIS: Oh, loads of people.
LAURA: No, but I mean, didn't
they teach you, like,
combat maneuvers and stuff?
When you were, like, I don't know.
TRAVIS: It's like ship warfare. I mean,
line of sight is everything.
LAURA: So what would be the best
ambush point, in your opinion?
TRAVIS: Not here. Anywhere
that you can see them
before they can see you in some way.
Or that you can take cover
until they reach your position.
I mean, that's the basic point of it.
I mean, if we're in this
giant thousand-foot
by thousand-foot cavern
and we're in a city,
no one has the advantage.
Except those that can fly.
LAURA: The best point still,
from everything that we've seen so far,
is that initial cavern
fall down into the ground.
TRAVIS: Unless there's a
feature of this cavern
that we can find somehow quickly
in the next, I don't know, hour or so.
Assuming that they don't
come and aren't radioed.
Otherwise, we'd need to
find some sort of feature
beyond this cavern to make a--
LAURA: Which I don't
think is smart to keep
wasting time like that.
LIAM: No.
LAURA: I think we should
just go and set it up there.
TRAVIS: Unless your
plan is to fly overhead
and see if there's
anything that jumps out
from a bird's eye view.
LAURA: But there could also
be something that "jumps out"
at a bird's eye view.
TRAVIS: I mean--
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: It's a risk either way.
LIAM: I mean, the only
thing I would think to do,
maybe, is to send Frumpkin
just on a little walk.
TALIESIN: That's a good idea.
LIAM: And see further in,
but that's about all
I'd really want to do.
MARISHA: Well. And to your point,
with this big, sprawling cityscape
in the dark, if we are in a bad position
and we do need to retreat
coming here and trying to hide, I mean,
it would then turn into a
little game of hide and seek.
TRAVIS: These buildings suck. They suck.
MARISHA: But we fight them
there and can flee here.
Maybe we can even find a
good hiding spot here.
If shit really starts hitting the fan.
LAURA: This building right here,
this is a great hiding spot.
MARISHA: I mean, we could make
this like our fallback Alamo.
TRAVIS: Why are we hiding?
LAURA: In case we start to die
and we don't want to run away fully?
(laughs)
In case we're carrying
dead bodies and fleeing?
TRAVIS: Are we fleeing?
MARISHA: Well, just if
we need to go to here.
If we needed to run back and, you know,
find a pullback spot.
LIAM: We're going to murder-lize them.
We're going to destroy them.
But if things go south on us,
as they are wont to do, I think,
please think this out with me.
But as you said earlier,
a sigil high up out of view
where the rope is, they are hurt,
they fall land in a
circle of intuit charges,
take secondary damage almost instantly,
and we are waiting in
that salamander chamber.
LAURA: Can I ask a question?
Based on the travels that we had before,
that, you know how
there was a little crevice
that led to the ledge that
went down the initial--
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: -- the crawlspace
that led to the--
How long was that
crawlspace? Like 15 feet?
MATT: If I recall, it was
maybe about 25 or 30 feet?
TRAVIS: A couple of bodies' lengths?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: So yeah. So if we put the sigil
on the edge of the crawl space
when you're first looking down.
And what sets it off is somebody looking out.
It would hit, I mean, it would
hit whoever was up there,
or whoever first took it down,
and then anybody waiting
up top would also be hit
because it's a 60-foot radius.
TRAVIS: You know,
there's always a chance,
even though they've been here before,
they're smart and send one person ahead
just to see if anything's changed?
LAURA: Sure. But they could wait
on the outside of that crawl space.
They would still be hit.
TRAVIS: Totally.
LAURA: Even if it was one at a time--
TRAVIS: They just won't fall, and
they just won't hit the stack
to empty the charges and
that will all be rendered--
LIAM: And just one
more thing to remember
about the intuit charges is
they will go off once someone
comes within 60 feet, so they
need to be spaced properly.
LAURA: Right.
MARISHA: Right.
MARISHA: Okay.
So there's the plan of putting the sigil
on the edge of the crawlspace.
LAURA: That was just an option.
The other one would be,
like, they could put it
right down as soon as they
come down on the ground.
MARISHA: Right, because if
we put-- there was the idea
of floating the intuit charges.
TRAVIS: Sidebar, what do we
think they're looking for?
Not that I don't love talking
about this booby trap.
What do we think they're
looking for when they get here?
Where are they going?
Have we figured that out yet?
LIAM: They have a place to cross over.
TRAVIS: And we haven't figured
that out where that is?
ALL: No.
TRAVIS: We don't know if
it's left, straight, right?
Why aren't we trying to
fly above this thing
and see something?
Because we're afraid of
something jumping out?
We're going to have to
take risk at some point.
TALIESIN: I'd say flight
is the way-- I agree.
TRAVIS: I would fly, but
I've done it already.
SAM: Flying to just around this area?
This is not--
TRAVIS: It's a massive space
with a bunch of cities--
SAM: This isn't where we're going.
TRAVIS: There's got to be something that jumps out.
MARISHA: Well, we--
TRAVIS: A door, a wall.
A well, a hole, or something.
MARISHA: I'm assuming that
we have to cut through here
in order to get to the empty blank space
where they're trying to get to.
SAM: We can look--
sorry, Fjord, are we looking around
for an ambush point in this city?
Or are we looking for
the Somnovem place?
TRAVIS: Anything, features, where
else they might be coming from,
where they might go to,
things that we could utilize.
If we know which direction
they're going to head in,
then we can check to see if
there is another choke point
that's not the one in the beginning.
LAURA: It's spending time exploring.
That's the only thing, we're spending
all this time exploring.
If we can set the sigil, set the trap,
maybe take a long rest,
and hopefully, you know,
get our stuff back in that eight hours
before they get here,
then we'll be fresh.
Or we can spend all the time looking
for another ambush point, and
definitely won't be fresh.
MARISHA: I think we're all
on the same page.
LIAM: There could be
seven different exits
from this chamber that
the city is inside of.
So we might not find the way,
there could be many options.
We could turn my cat into
some sort of-- like a bat
or some kind of flying creature
to just do a circle
to get the lay of the land here,
or one of us could do it.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I gladly can do it.
I just want to make sure we
all know what we're doing.
LIAM: I'm curious what these
blue and green things are.
I think we should--
MARISHA: I don't know.
LAURA: I don't think we should-- yeah.
LIAM: I'm not saying we all go over,
but I think sending my cat to
take a look is not a bad idea.
TALIESIN: I think having a cat
just take a look.
ASHLEY: He could check the lights and--
LAURA: And then somebody fly up--
ASHLEY: I can do a look around.
TALIESIN: All right.
SAM: You can fly for 10 minutes?
One minute?
ASHLEY: I can fly for one minute.
LAURA: Great.
SAM: Okay.
ASHLEY: So I can-- sure I
can see a lot in a minute.
MARISHA: Are you sure you
don't want to save that
in case shit hits the fan?
ASHLEY: I mean, the
reason I like saving it
is because when I do it,
you can do extra damage.
LAURA: Then don't use it.
ASHLEY: But--
MARISHA: Yeah, save it, save it.
ASHLEY: But I mean,
it's also, it takes--
it takes an action to do it, so.
TRAVIS: No, save it.
LAURA: Save it.
It's only for a minute, you're not
going to be able to explore.
I have no more Polymorphs, I've used up
all my 4th-level spells.
LIAM: One safe way to do
it-- are you prepared
to make yourself invisible right now?
SAM: Sure, I can just run around.
LIAM: No, I could make you
fly while you're invisible.
SAM: Okay, or that.
LIAM: You could quietly
fly all over the place.
You're the person who is the quietest.
MARISHA: I'd honestly trust
that more than your cat.
No offense.
LAURA: Yeah.
Plus Nott can put on the goggles,
get good perception.
LIAM: Absolutely.
SAM: I'm not the most perceptive person.
LAURA: Well, you're better than the cat.
Let's be honest.
SAM: Okay, if anyone can
boost my perception--
LIAM: Aren't you great at investigating?
SAM: Investigating.
LIAM: That's what you're doing.
SAM: No, I'm perceiving from the sky.
ASHLEY: Are we resting here
or we're going to keep going?
LAURA: We don't know.
ASHLEY: We don't know yet.
MATT: It's an hour-long short rest,
so this conversation,
I'm assuming, is happening
during that hour.
There's still time of the hour.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Our most perceptive
person is Caduceus.
ASHLEY: I'm pretty perceptive.
SAM: I can probably make him-- or Yasha.
Either one.
I can turn them invisible
and you can make them fly.
LIAM: Who can be--
LAURA: Quiet?
LIAM: Quiet also.
MARISHA: Right, which is why
we couldn't even just have
like a stealth duo go
out and normal scout--
LAURA: No, we need a fly.
SAM: I'll touch--
LIAM: Fly, for the big picture.
SAM: I'll touch Yasha,
I'll make her invisible.
You touch her, make her fly,
then she can
go all over the place.
LAURA: Be quiet as fuck, Yasha,
go find something.
TRAVIS: We need a drone,
we need a drone.
ASHLEY: We all know that
I am very quiet.
History has--
LIAM: Are you?
SAM: Or Caduceus, how's your stealth?
ASHLEY: Pretty quiet.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: (uncertain noises)
SAM: So it's either me and you
get total great stealth,
but lousy perception.
LIAM: You're pretty good stealth, right?
MARISHA: My perception's okay.
My investigation's better.
My perception's okay and
my stealth is plus 10.
ASHLEY: Perception is plus 10?
MARISHA: No, my stealth is.
LIAM: That's great.
MARISHA: Perception plus four.
TALIESIN: I vote cat.
Does anybody else have a--
LAURA: No.
TALIESIN: Never mind.
LIAM: The cat can't see.
The cat's supposed to go look
at a light and that's it.
ASHLEY: One.
LAURA: Fuck.
What's your stealth, Yasha?
ASHLEY: Plus three.
LAURA: And your perception is--?
ASHLEY: Plus five.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: Wow!
Way better than me.
SAM: What about Beau?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: She's got pretty good
perception, pretty good stealth.
LIAM: She got a Bless.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm a 10-five, 10 perception.
LAURA: Oh, well then Caduceus is--
SAM: Oh, that's fucking amazing.
That's even better.
MARISHA: 10 perception, five stealth?
TALIESIN: Yeah, all right.
SAM: That's pretty good.
TRAVIS: What the fuck
are you talking about?
Are you nuts?
That's amazing!
ASHLEY: Get out there, go.
LAURA: Let's get Caduceus out, fly around.
TRAVIS: I'm at a three and
a one over here. (laughs)
Or two.
TALIESIN: This is what
I'm good at, apparently.
All right, I'll take a look around.
SAM: All right, I will make you--
TALIESIN: I'll need the goggles.
ASHLEY: ♪ Look around now ♪
MARISHA: All right.
I toss you the goggles.
TALIESIN: Oh boy.
SAM: I will make you invisible.
MARISHA: Don't stretch out the
elastic, like, adjust it a little,
your head's a lot-- aww.
MATT: I recommend casting the
Fly spell before Invisibility,
since you have to see the target.
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: Okay, wait, and
then before Invisibility,
I'll waste a spell as well
and cast Owl's Wisdom on you.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
That gives me--
SAM: In every campaign,
we need at least one flying cow.
(laughter)
LAURA: Oh wait, perception, yeah.
Advantage on any perception check.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Okay.
You're flying, you're invisible.
You're fabulous.
SAM: You've done Fly?
LIAM: Yes.
SAM: I'm casting Invisibility.
I will touch you in a
sort of a creepy way.
TALIESIN: I will make some sound
and some light if things go wrong.
TRAVIS: My sword is glowing,
so when you want to come back,
that's where we are.
TALIESIN: So.
SAM: Wait, I want to
do this Caleb style.
I take out an eyelash
and some gum arabic
and smash them together
in my palms and spit in it,
that's just for flavor,
and smash it on your head.
Okay, you're now invisible.
LAURA: I'm going to
do this Jester style.
I'm going to take out my paint brush
and I'm going to paint
another mustache on you.
Sorry, Veth.
There you go.
LIAM: I cast Fly at 3rd-level.
(laughter)
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Perfect.
MATT: Now Caduceus, your eyes
adjust to the darkvision.
As you adjust to the mash
that was placed on your body
by Veth, as you begin to shimmer and vanish,
you can still see your
form, but you can see
the somewhat translucent
energy over it
as you begin to also
lift off the ground
in an uncomfortable way that
you're not fully used to.
TALIESIN: Like the first time
in a flight harness.
MATT: Yeah, you start drifting
a little bit to one side
and catch yourself, but nevertheless,
you can fly invisibly
while feeling quite wise.
TALIESIN: All right, let's--
I'm going to head out and
start seeing if I can find--
get a lay of the land,
see if I can find
any of those strange
blue and green glowing lights.
Not get too close,
but get a sense of them.
LAURA: And look for the
entrance to the Somnovem ward.
TALIESIN: Any entrances or--
SAM: And also ambush points.
Choke points.
TALIESIN: I don't know what
any of that is, but sure.
ASHLEY: And also any snacks.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I know what that is.
If I see snacks,
I will identify them immediately.
TRAVIS: You see the Concession Ward.
LAURA: Any silk robes,
any kimonos, grab 'em.
TALIESIN: Silk robes.
MARISHA: Food Court Ward.
TRAVIS: Oh, Panda Express, no way.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: K.B. Toy store.
ASHLEY: Oh, my favorite!
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Ooh, they have Sbarro's.
TRAVIS: Orange Julius!
TALIESIN: Sharper Image massage
chairs so we can all get a quick--
SAM: Ooh, I love those.
MARISHA: 20 bucks for a
15 minute massage? Hell yeah.
TALIESIN: Worst mall ever. All right.
MATT: As you take off
into the air above,
it's astonishing, one,
to be able to see clearly around you
the neighborhood structure.
You can actually see the--
how the streets are arranged and almost
like a capillary system
at this distance,
as you pull up,
you can see what was once
the close buildings
becomes what was once
the thrum of a living city.
All sorts of odd structures
fallen and collapsed,
vehicles that are broken.
The first thing that
catches your attention
and the first source of a light
is a pale blue light and
two green lights
from within some sort of
larger circular structure,
much larger than
everything else nearby.
It's a few hundred feet
away from the building
where everyone else is resting.
Go ahead and make a perception
check for me, with advantage.
TALIESIN: 25.
MATT: You coast up and above it,
and quickly you can make out
this was some kind of amphitheater.
MARISHA: Oh.
MATT: You can see
a seating arrangement
that descends towards the center.
You can see what was
a raised dais in the center
with podiums and seating spaces,
though it is now partially fallen in
and the podium in the center is now
at an odd angle and cracked.
You can see in the middle of that space
is a very bright blue glow,
and that bluish-green glow
you can see scattered on two different
points on the ground.
Do you want to get closer?
TALIESIN: Let's get a little closer,
see what I can see from above.
MATT: Make a stealth check.
LIAM: I'm imagining you--
MATT: With advantage
because you are invisible.
LIAM: -- as a firbolg owl man right now.
TALIESIN: 22.
MATT: 22.
Silently, you coast through the air,
the musty, long-left-still atmosphere
catching your sinuses.
As you push closer and
closer to the light,
you get a glimpse down.
There's this-- the pale,
greenish-blue light
looks to be remaining light sources,
like magical lanterns that
once lit portions of the city.
Who knows if their
magic has faded over time.
They don't brightly light a space here.
It's almost like it's at the end of its
long-held arcane lifespan,
just giving this very dull, barely there
outline to everything around it.
The blue light is much brighter, and sit--
TALIESIN: Oh, those are the green ones.
MATT: That was the green-blue,
teal-turquoise lights.
The blue light is much brighter and is
right next to where that
podium is in the central dais.
As you coast closer to that space,
you can see now in this
colosseum, this amphitheater,
numerous corpses, hundreds of them.
This space was full when
the cataclysm came.
ASHLEY: Oh.
MATT: You can just see
hundreds upon hundreds
of mummified bodies
thrown to the ground.
Some that have fallen to the rubble,
some that were struck down by
something upon their impact.
But it is just this still ghost
of what must've been
momentarily a chaotic scene
as a populous attempted to run screaming
before they were silenced
and left to drop where they stood.
In the middle, you see
that bright blue light
is a glowing dome, just like the one
that you encountered in the ruins
previously in Eiselcross.
SAM: Frozen?
LIAM: Like insects
frozen in amber, yeah.
MATT: You aren't close
enough to get any details
from the interior, you'd
have to get pretty close
to that dome and inspect it,
but you could try, if you like.
TALIESIN: Questions just for fun.
Does Eyes of the Grave count as a spell?
So if I bounce it, will I
lose flight or invisibility?
MATT: Eyes of the Grave is
an ability, it is not a spell.
TALIESIN: So I can just
use that and that's fine.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: And it's your spell--
TALIESIN: Just going to give it a little--
I'm just going to see
if any of this stuff is iffy
that I can see.
MATT: Okay.
You get down within a
space where you feel like
you're getting a comfortable vicinity
around where you're intending to travel.
Nothing.
TALIESIN: Everything's quiet?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Nothing moving?
Above me as well?
MATT: Above you as well.
TALIESIN: Just get a little
closer, not too close,
but I want to see how--
I want to inch closer
until I can get some kind of idea
of what might be inside this blue dome.
How close would I have to get
to actually see inside of it?
MATT: You have to get right next to it.
TALIESIN: Oh.
MATT: Or like, at least
within five or so feet.
TALIESIN: Mm.
I'll slowly edge towards it to see.
Nothing happened last time we saw one.
I'll slowly edge towards it.
MATT: Okay.
Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: 28.
MATT: Okay.
That's pretty high.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Looking at the
interior of this dome,
you can just make out
the shapes beyond,
a singular humanoid figure.
As your eyes begin to clarify
between the patterns,
the still shifting patterns,
like the rainbow light that
dances across an oil slick,
the blue still shifts and slightly moves
in its own magically-sealed dome.
Glancing within this, you see
a human woman in a powerful stance.
Arms out in front, looks like
they are in the midst
of some sort of incantation, mouth open,
shouting and intent.
Very, very--
officious look to her.
She is dressed in a multilayered,
prestigious looking cloak
and mantle with details
and tethers and tassels
decorated to appear of great import.
Her hands in the midst of pressing
the spell outward, shouting, and locked
in whatever moment she last had.
TALIESIN: Weird technical
question, as I back up from this.
I see where she's facing and I see
where she seems to be
concentrating her attention
to whatever spell she was going to cast.
Can I tell, looking at
the crowd, what they were afraid of?
Like, can I tell from the crowd
what, like, where their--
MATT: Make an investigation
check for me.
TALIESIN: Mother--
MATT: This is sussing out patterns.
This is straight up investigation.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's fair.
TRAVIS: The woman inside that
bubble looks preserved or--
MATT: What's what?
TRAVIS: Does her form in
that bubble look preserved,
the silhouette, or--
MATT: From what he can
tell, it's preserved.
Not like anything else around.
LIAM: Stasis.
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: 15?
TALIESIN: So it's just like trying
to get a read of the crowd.
MATT: Right.
TALIESIN: What were they running from?
MATT: The crowd is a bit
scattered, directionally.
It looks like there was just chaos.
Pandemonium.
You do not get the sense
that they were running
from this central figure.
TALIESIN: Or that they
were facing, like--
what I was hoping for was,
did it seem like she was
confronting something
or confronting them?
If that makes sense.
It's hard to tell, I know.
MATT: It's hard to tell.
It really is.
TALIESIN: Man, I rolled a 15.
MATT: I know.
TALIESIN: So hard.
MATT: With your perception,
what you do gather
is next to where the
dome is, you can see,
like, there are bodies that have slumped
over the edge of the dais and fallen,
like just legs left up there,
but the rest of the body
just rotted and fell to the ground.
You do see another one of those
mostly metallic humanoid figures.
TALIESIN: Mm.
MATT: This one much more intact.
Though it looks like one of its legs
is heavily damaged and shredded.
You can see its chest is partially
pulled open in the front,
but its head is intact to its shoulders,
its arms are intact, and it looks like
it has some decoration to it.
Something that connects the decoration
between the figure in the dome
and this particular mechanical being.
TALIESIN: Huh.
Well, I'm going to pull back
for a little while now,
and I'm going to try and
just do a lazy sweep
to see if there's anything
that appears to be an exit
from this city or any
other important building.
I know how much time I have.
MATT: Okay.
You began to coast around.
The Fly lasts for how long?
LIAM: An hour.
MATT: An hour, okay.
Invisibility lasts for
an hour as well, I believe?
And her spell last for an hour.
LIAM: No, sorry, 10 minutes.
MATT: I was going to say,
10 minutes, then.
So you've been here--
You've been out there for
about six or so minutes.
So you--
TALIESIN: Do I start to feel it go, or--?
MATT: No, but you're quietly counting,
and knowing that you only
have 10 minutes, you're--
make an intelligence check for me.
Which, by the way.
Fly is-- 2nd-level spell, 2nd-level spell,
Fly is a 3rd-level.
LIAM: 3rd-level spell.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
All right, just checking.
TALIESIN: 10.
LIAM: Great.
MATT: 10, all righty.
TALIESIN: 10's great for me.
MATT: You probably have about
four more minutes of this.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to take a
lazy way back to the house.
So I'm just going to sort of--
I'm not going to head back
the way I did, I'm just going to
try and take a new path
and keep an eye out
for anything unusual, anything--
MATT: Okay.
Glancing through, there
are hallways and such
that exit from the
middle of this amphitheater,
themselves also lined with bodies.
Eventually you find your way
back to the main thoroughfare
on the exterior that leads
back to where the rest
of your team awaits, and you
can glide above and head back.
Is there anything else you want to do
with these final minutes, or--?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I want to go--
First of all, does it seem like
there are tracks on
the main thoroughfare
from things that have
been moving through it?
MATT: You'd have to get
real close and inspect.
TALIESIN: I'm going to get
MATT: Go ahead and make a
perception or investigation check.
TALIESIN: Why you even ask is beyond me.
24.
MATT: 24.
There are some tracks.
You can see
what looks to be old,
old humanoid footprints.
You know, one thing you do notice,
and you guys have been
here a little bit,
but you're noticing it more
the further in you go,
the cold seems to dissipate compared
to where it was previously,
like the ruin itself
has a warmer atmosphere.
MARISHA: Central heat?
MATT: Kind of.
Or at least, whatever cold
temperatures beset Eiselcross
don't pierce quite as
deep as this ruin is.
You're uncertain as to
which is the cause for this,
but where the entire arrival here
was dusted with frost and ice,
this subzero winterscape.
This ruin, the ice is slowly dissipating
the further in you go,
and this amphitheater
only has a coldish energy to it,
but no real ice.
So it's easier for you
to see these footprints,
but unable to tell how recent
they would be, necessarily.
There are--
TALIESIN: Inhuman ones.
MATT: There are a few inhuman ones.
TALIESIN: Monstery looking things?
MATT: Yeah.
But you're uncertain how old they are.
You've encountered
creatures, so you know
other creatures live here,
whether they be Aeorian
in original origin or not,
but you're uncertain.
TALIESIN: I'm going to gently take
a path off the main thoroughfare,
looking through--
I'm going to take my path
back to the house off
the main thoroughfare
just at roof level, just to sort of see
what this place looks like
from just a bird's eye view, not a--
LAURA: Did you get a high vantage point, too?
Like--
TALIESIN: I did.
LAURA: You already went high up?
Okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: And you guys saw some of
the neighborhoods in this space,
and there are larger,
officious looking buildings.
Some that are still intact,
many that are fallen in.
Even at this distance,
even with your great perception,
the only light that you can
go by beyond the darkvision's
60-foot radius is whatever
very faint light is emanated
from these blue and blue-green
dots around there.
So you can just make out basic shapes.
You can't get a full lay of this
mostly dark terrain, unfortunately.
But you take in the shape
and you get a basic idea
of what this looks like,
and to your credit
and the high perception
rate, you gather,
getting a better perspective
for the depth,
this is probably about
a hundred, I'm sorry,
1,500 to close 2000 feet across
before this chamber's other wall comes to a close.
TALIESIN: And I haven't
seen any exits other than
the one we got through in the chamber?
MATT: Mm-mm.
You can't even see the
other wall, either.
You can't see any other exits,
because all you can see
is a neighborhood.
You are too far away from any
side to see where it ends.
If this is the end of it,
if it continues on,
you just know that
that's where you think
the next sign of a wall may be.
TALIESIN: Gotcha.
All right, I'm just
going to take a careful look
through that neighborhood and through the--
SAM: ♪ Takin' a look! ♪
TALIESIN: -- back alleys and then head home.
MATT: Okay. You're getting close.
You are cruising back
towards where your friends
are awaiting you,
and as you are drifting,
you fall the last 15 feet.
You did not quite time the
end of the spell properly.
TALIESIN: Is the flight
or the invisibility?
MATT: The flight.
TRAVIS: That was that old
intelligence 10 roll.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Unfortunately.
TRAVIS: You're good, you're good,
tuck and roll.
MATT: You take two points
of bludgeoning damage.
It's a small fall.
TALIESIN: Ankles, knees, hips.
MATT: But you like go from
this graceful (whooshing)
to (grunting) onto the ground
and catch yourself a bit.
TALIESIN: Put my back towards
the wall, look around to see
if anything was irritated by that.
MATT: Perception check.
TALIESIN: 26.
MATT: 26.
Nothing.
You think.
TALIESIN: I'm going to--
I'm still invisible, right?
MATT: You are still invisible, yes.
TALIESIN: I'm going to very gently
make my way back to the house.
MATT: Make a stealth check
for me, please.
With advantage.
TALIESIN: Goddamn.
Where are these rolls when I'm fighting?
22.
MATT: 22, okay.
Gingerly, you make your way
through the streets,
avoiding loose rubble and anything
that might give away your location
if tumbled into or passed.
Quietly, you eventually approach Fjord,
who's keeping watch on the exterior,
and you meet up with
the rest of your team.
TALIEISN: See anything?
TRAVIS: (startled noise)
TALIESIN: Shouldn't do that,
we're trying to be stealthy.
TRAVIS: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Hmm?
TRAVIS: You're still invisible.
TALIEISN: Oh, yeah.
I mean, it seems like
the smart thing to do.
TRAVIS: Can you drop your invisibility?
TALIESIN: I don't know, actually.
I'm not sure if I can.
TRAVIS: Caduceus is back.
TALIESIN: I don't know
if I want to find out.
I think I'll just enjoy
this for a little while.
SAM: What'd you find out?
TALIESIN: Well, and I--
LAURA: We say, as the door opens.
MATT: Mm-hmm. (creaking)
TALIESIN: (lip trilling)
And that's what I saw.
SAM: So--
LAURA: Wow, we need that lady.
She sounds powerful.
TRAVIS: We've seen
that blue dome before,
but did we try to dispel it,
or cure it, or break it, or--?
LAURA: I don't think
we tried to dispel it.
SAM: I think we tried
to hit it, didn't we?
MARISHA: You tried to
with your Judge, right?
Magician's Judge?
LAURA: Oh, that's right.
SAM: (mumbled) Magician's Judge.
ASHLEY: I can't remember if
we tried to dispel it or not.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's right.
LAURA: Oh, it's solid.
MARISHA: And the people that
we saw in the bubble before,
were they also wearing
fancy robes and looked nice?
And looked powerful?
LAURA: They looked mid-run.
They didn't look like they were like--
MARISHA: Yeah, they were running.
MATT: They were running, it looked like.
LAURA: Somebody else cast
it on them or something.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's true, yeah.
LIAM: It's probably just
whoever is within the radius.
TRAVIS: It's not like,
"I'm going to jump forward
2000 years in time" bubble.
Somebody else shot a (foomph).
LIAM: It's just a quick
emergency action from a
high-level caster, probably.
MARISHA: Unless this is some
sort of weird side effect
of the beacon that we
assume was maybe here
vanishing, keeping them in
some sort of protective stasis
for those that are consecuted?
LAURA: Guys, I know this is
really important to talk about,
but we also--
SAM: Why are you doing this?
Why are you doing this?
What's this?
LAURA: Because I'm doing secretive.
SAM: Oh, okay.
LAURA: We also need to
eat a Heroes' Feast.
MARISHA: Oh yeah.
TALIESIN: So.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: It takes an hour to consume!
MARISHA: I have a plan.
TRAVIS: And lasts how long?
LAURA: 24 hours.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Can I pitch my plan?
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Yes.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Before you pitch:
Caduceus, wherever you are in the room,
you saw no exits of the city?
TALIESIN: No.
SAM: Okay. No good ambush points?
TALIESIN: I don't know
what that would be.
TRAVIS: You made it to the
other end of the cavern?
TALIESIN: There wasn't enough time,
but I saw where the cavern ended.
I just couldn't get a
good look at it, but--
SAM: Okay, what's your pitch?
What's your pitch?
MARISHA: Okay, we know Caduceus is--
not-- you're Caduceus.
Oh lord.
We know Lucien's end game, and that is
to get to wherever he's going.
We don't know much more past this point
of the direction of how to get there.
We put the intuit charges up under
to where they're floating.
Have that ambush point in the
chamber that we talked about.
Your sigil on the ground,
hopefully intuit charges poof,
they fall, hit your sigil, we ambush.
We have this spot here
as our fallback place.
If we, things were starting to go bad,
we can just keep pulling back,
maybe even keeping them at the distance,
kiting them, fighting them
at a distance as much as we can,
we can fall back here, try and hide,
and hopefully they don't see us,
and then maybe we can reverse the tides
to where if they decide to keep moving,
then we can be the ones that
are following for once.
LIAM: There's one technical issue.
The charges do not float any higher
than three feet off the ground.
So they can't float over the lip.
They'd have to be in that passage
or what I was thinking was
at the bottom of the fall.
LAURA: Oh yeah, at the very bottom
of the fall, that's good.
So we put the sigil up top,
hopefully they fall.
I could also put the sigil
halfway down the chamber
so maybe it'll hit
a couple of them as it hits.
MARISHA: Because you said it's 60 feet
and it makes them incapacitated?
LAURA: The one I would do, yes.
MARISHA: So then they could hopefully fall.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Take the
full blast of the intuit charges.
TRAVIS: Pain, right?
LAURA: Pain is what I was going to use, yes.
TRAVIS: And it would incapacitate them?
LAURA: Yes. It incapacitates
them in excruciating pain.
TRAVIS: Intuit stuns
them as well, right?
MARISHA: And does a bunch of
psychic damage, right?
TRAVIS: 10d10.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: And intuit charges
only hit the people
that we want it to hit, it doesn't hit
everybody within the radius?
LIAM: It's psychic damage to
anyone within 60 feet.
So we need to be out.
SAM: I think it's within 300 feet.
MATT: It's within 300 feet.
LIAM: Right, yeah.
TRAVIS: Yeah, the only
thing on the fallback,
and just as long as
we're cognizant of it.
Fleeing to this fallback
point means going up
that 150-foot incline that has
a bunch of slippery checks
and then jumping over a
15-foot chasm that some people
may or may not do, just as
long as we're cool with that.
MARISHA: You're not wrong.
TRAVIS: I mean, we can also
use that T-junction as a--
you know, as a fallback point.
You can throw a bunch of the--
people that like to
get up close and bang
aren't going to have
to have a lot of fun,
but people that can shoot
down a hallway can.
You just have to stay away.
MARISHA: Away.
LIAM: Matt, I have a
question, out of character.
So I had Globe of Invulnerability
before I ever got Allura's staff.
Now I also have it.
Would I know enough from
the spell and the staff
and the intuit charges, which
I've studied for a while,
if the effect of the charge
would be powerful enough
to break through the protective shell
of the Globe of Invulnerability?
MATT: Make an arcana check for me.
SAM: I have one more ambush pitch.
LAURA: You do?
LIAM: 18.
MATT: It's an
Aeorian-sourced technology,
which is beyond most
of your understanding.
It is not a spell that it's emitting,
though it is magical in nature.
It's a gamble.
LIAM: Right.
TRAVIS: Before we do your pitch,
just a point of clarification.
We should really walk 300 feet
to the bottom of that tunnel,
because I think it's
farther back than we think.
That room was only what,
a hundred feet wide?
MATT: Approximately, yeah.
TRAVIS: So you're going to have to add--
Yeah, 200 and 250 feet away
from that where it's not going to--
TALIESIN: Which means going in to
attack them is going to be very hard.
LAURA: That's why, like
the glyph, we won't even
be able to take advantage of the fact
that they're incapacitated.
SAM: So wait, from the bottom drop point--
TRAVIS: You'll get a little bit of the intuit--
to like that T-intersection,
how far is that?
MATT: That's about, I'd say 250 feet.
SAM: Okay.
And then that drop point
is the center of the room?
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: What if we
were in the mansion?
SAM: That's fair.
We wouldn't know what's
going on outside, though.
LIAM: Or the dome.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Will the dome protect
us from the psychic damage?
TRAVIS: Arcane Gate.
SAM: It will.
LIAM: I think so.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: It stops everything.
LAURA: You could do the--
Oh my gosh!
We could do that.
You have the Arcane Gate.
MATT: Make an arcana check.
LAURA: He has the Arcane Gate.
So we could set the intuit charges,
put the Arcane Gate right there,
and then after it hits,
then we bamf in 300 feet.
MARISHA: That's cool, too.
LAURA: And just all run
through the door.
TALIESIN: That's way better.
MARISHA: That is cool, too.
LAURA: If you have it available.
LIAM: 26.
TALIESIN: We need a long rest anyway.
LAURA: If we get a long rest.
I don't know if we're going to.
MATT: Once again, you
don't understand much
of the basis of the creation
of these Aeorian devices.
It is beyond any of your study,
beyond just the bits
and pieces that you've seen and
put together.
It's very, very powerful
what these devices do,
and the dome is a
powerful spell for its level.
You're uncertain.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
MATT: So it's a gamble.
LIAM: I was thinking the doors, too.
I think the magic doors
is the way to go.
MARISHA: The door's a good idea.
TALIESIN: That was a great idea.
TRAVIS: I'll have to do it
as soon as they hit it.
Can't leave it up.
LAURA: Okay, well yeah,
as soon as they hit it.
TALIESIN: We'll know when it gets hit.
LAURA: Will you be able
to see 300 feet away?
TRAVIS: Depends if--
LAURA: Or you could hear.
TRAVIS: Just depends if there's
line of sight from that point.
If it turns at all, then no.
But if we hear it go off or
something, it's like, ah!
We run up.
MATT: This hallway, it--
it is in places like,
as I described before,
parts are collapsed in and
there are bars halfway through.
It would take a high
perception check to be able
to get line of sight through it.
It is a straight hall,
but a lot of it's been--
a lot of it's been shoved off
its axis from the impact,
it's heavily damaged.
So I just will say,
you can go back and check,
but it's a challenging,
challenging view.
And even then, you do not have,
there's no light source,
and you do not have the ability
to see beyond 60 feet of darkvision, so.
TRAVIS: That's right.
That you can see. That's true.
MARISHA: Unless we put
the intuit charges--
TRAVIS: That would cancel that out.
I need to be able to see it.
MARISHA: Up top, higher.
TRAVIS: Like a balloon on the ceiling.
TALIESIN: Could always just
tape them to the wall.
MARISHA: Yeah, like almost--
TRAVIS: Or we can just keep exploring.
LIAM: I really want them to
go off within moments of each other
to drop people.
LAURA: The more we explore,
the more time we waste,
the less we'll be able to rest.
That's my only thing that I'm saying.
TRAVIS: No, I'm with you.
MARISHA: Because I would
love a Heroes' Feast.
LAURA: I mean, we definitely
need to do that before.
TRAVIS: Less than 12 hours
is what we have? Right?
LAURA: Less than 24 is all we know.
MARISHA: I mean, we could get interrupted
in the middle of our night's rest.
LAURA: Again.
TRAVIS: I'd love to keep looking,
but that room is huge.
1000 by 1000 is nuts.
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: I think the traps
should take precedence.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: To the Heroes' Feast,
is what I'm saying.
LAURA and LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Lay the traps,
eat the feast, go to sleep.
SAM: Once the traps are
set, they just last?
TRAVIS: 24 hours.
SAM: 24 hours, that's pretty good.
LAURA: What about the intuit charge?
TRAVIS: And hers stays up, her--
LAURA: Mine is indefinite.
It stays until it's triggered.
SAM: The intuit charge stays for--
LIAM: 24 hours, I think.
I'm going to check.
LAURA: I don't think it's 24 hours.
LIAM: Well, I'm going to read it.
SAM: It's 24--
Wait.
TALIESIN: You've made us nervous.
Well done, Matt.
TRAVIS: Who's nervous?
TALIESIN: Made us so nervous.
MARISHA: I keep catching
myself like holding my breath.
SAM: It's just armed.
LIAM: Arms itself in one minute.
Oh, in one minute.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
So you can get away from it.
MATT: Hmm.
SAM: It doesn't say how long.
LIAM: Doesn't say anything about the--
SAM: But it lasts.
It could be indefinite.
LAURA: Until it's triggered?
MARISHA: Well, it's
proximity-based, right?
Or until you trigger it?
MATT: You can choose either to
have it remote detonation,
in which case, it's within an hour.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Or proximity-based.
LIAM: There's no, nothing's
mentioned on it.
MATT: Proximity-based, it becomes
a marked mine until it's set off.
SAM: That's pretty good.
ASHLEY: That is pretty good.
MARISHA: What do we think?
Time's a-ticking.
LAURA: If somebody gets within
60 feet of it, it sets it off,
but the charge hits
everybody within 300 feet?
TRAVIS: Yes.
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Cool.
LIAM: But if we set them
at the bottom of the rope
and they're falling,
they're going to get hit with it
when they're up,
so it's not a straight line.
Just factor that into your thinking.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: We should go
explore the rest of that,
because we're putting all our eggs
into this chamber basket, yeah?
So we should know it fully.
LAURA: Yeah, let's go back.
MATT: All right. So you guys
are going to trek back
and begin to plot out
what you wish to do.
LIAM and MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
Well, I'll go ahead and
bring the map out here
once we take a break.
MARISHA: Yeah!
Great time.
TALIESIN: Okay.
It has been a while.
MATT: We've been going for
a couple hours here.
LIAM: ♪ It's been a while! ♪
MARISHA: Jeez louise.
MATT: So we're going to
take a break here.
We'll come back.
We'll give you guys
some better examples
of what you're working with, and then
we'll see what you guys plan to do.
So we'll see you here in a few minutes.
(dramatic music)
(fire crackling)
NARRATOR: Dwarvenite.
The most precious substance among Dwarven smiths.
Able to absorb the very spirit of the craftsman.
Thus infused, it becomes nearly indestructible.
Able to forge heirlooms that will last for generations.
(yells)
Pure Dwarvenite.
Now you can get your hands on this legendary substance
with the new Dungeon of Doom.
Available now at dwarvenforge.com
(light ethereal music)
(whimsical adventure music)
(keys clacking)
LAURA: Hey, Critters, Laura Bailey here.
Let's see what's up in the Critical Role shop.
Oh my gosh, it's so amazing.
(bright music)
I mean, the Traveler always says,
impulse purchases are a good decision.
Can you put donuts in this?
Only one way to find out.
This is a lot of stuff, you guys.
We have so many cool things right now.
So click on over to the Critical Role shop. (laughs)
Don't worry, there's a few more minutes in the break.
You still got time.
Subscribe.
Or don't subscribe.
Hmm, that's not a question.
Whether it is nobler in the mind to ponder
the pros and more pros of Twitch or Twitch Prime,
or to take hands and gift new subs to Critters
who find they can't afford them.
To play.
To sleep.
No more.
And by a sleep, to say, the cast and crew
of Critical Role might find their naps
around their hectic schedule of a live broadcast
that we have brought for your consumption,
both Critter and fan alike.
To play, or sleep.
(scoffs)
No sleep, but just to stream.
Aye, there's the rub.
For with your subscription, what streams may come.
Oh man, oh man, oh man, that is a fucking tagline.
Do we got that?
Ooh, that is Twitch poetry. (grunts)
Oh, anyway, subscribe to Critical Role.
Use Twitch Prime to subscribe.
Gift some subscriptions.
You got it.
Hmm.
Wrong soliloquy for the skull, but that's fucking good.
(bright orchestral music)
MATT: And welcome back.
So last we left off,
you were plotting and
planning what to do.
You guys are going to head back
and work out the space
from where you landed.
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: So you make your way
out of the city of Aeor,
the Praesidis Ward,
back to the tunnel.
LAURA: Oh yeah.
MATT: If you want to,
like, there are bits of rubble
and such you can take from the city
and put across the gap--
SAM: Oh, to make it a bridge?
MATT: -- and just make a bridge
to make it easier to get back.
TALIESIN: Yeah, sure.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: So you don't have to
do the rope thing every time.
LAURA: Ooh, you know what would be good,
if we do end up running away
from whatever happens and
we have to hide in the city?
When we run away, you should make, like,
a thin ice bridge that looks like thick
so that when they step on it,
they fall down or something.
Or I could do Stone Shape
really, really thin.
Sexy, okay, let's keep going.
(laughter)
MATT: Okay, all right.
There is the decline,
the icy decline down the hall.
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: How are you planning
to make your way down there?
TRAVIS: On our butts, like
down a slippery driveway.
LAURA: Like when you're on
the black diamond
and you were scared.
TRAVIS: Oh, we do have a rope.
LIAM: You rope it and you just--
MARISHA: Yeah, repel down?
Yeah, so on the way back,
I'll scoop up the rope, or I'll do--
we'll do the other thing the other way,
get everybody across--
TRAVIS: We'll knot my 50 feet to it.
MATT: Yeah, as long as you
have a three lengths of rope,
I think you'll be able to do this.
So you both have rope?
Somebody else have rope?
LAURA: And Beau will
be the last one down,
because you have Slow Fall
so you can get down really easy, right?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, so between the three of you,
you manage to knot them together.
TALIESIN: Will make escaping easier, too.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
MATT: So with that,
you won't be required to make
a check to descend down this.
Slowly, you make your way to the base,
back to the intersection where
the bodies of the salamanders
in the fight earlier still remain
covered in mold.
SAM: (sneezes)
ALL: Bless you.
MATT: Until eventually
you return to the chamber
where you previously were,
which I have set the map down here.
You can see the entrance way that leads
into the distant hallway
is on this far end.
This is about where you land
from the above open
pit, if you will.
This is the collapsed tower
and some of the other rubble around.
Anywhere where you've seen this
little bit of darker fuzz,
is where the brown mold is.
LAURA: Oh.
MATT: This little 20-foot
space was carved out
by Essek to help you guys get through.
LAURA: Oh shit, okay, okay, okay.
SAM: Have we gotten a sense--
for like, do we have to
touch it to get that effect?
Be like within five feet of it?
MATT: You get the sense
within the five or 10 feet,
it seems to hurt you.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: So as long as you stay
right in the middle of this room,
you should be okay.
SAM: Okay.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: So what's the plan?
SAM: Well, let's set our charges and--
LAURA: Yeah, somehow-- okay.
I-- are we making the--
are we putting the glyph--
LIAM: We have to put the glyph first.
MARISHA: Yes.
LAURA: The symbol--
Yeah, that has to be
up the tunnel right?
LIAM: Because it's too
dangerous down here,
we can't move around--
LAURA: So it has to be somewhere
where they don't see it.
Because Lucien will probably
be able to see anything
if it's within eyesight.
So I'm thinking I'll put it on
the underside of the doorway
that door that was sticking out.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: That is
higher than the mouth of the tunnel,
so it can trigger a little sooner.
Meaning less people
could be in the tunnel.
LAURA: Oh right, oh well,
yeah, that's the other place
I could put it is right
on the underside lip
of the entrance into this cavern.
So anybody that passes within like
15 feet of it or
20 feet of it or whatever,
will set it off and then
it'll have a 60-foot radius
hopefully to cause them to fall.
If they're--
MARISHA: But hopefully we want them
to be climbing down,
because if they're still
hanging out on that lip,
they won't fall,
they'll be just be--
LAURA: Correct.
MARISHA: -- incapacitated.
LAURA: If they're
incapacitated on a rope,
can they hang onto that rope?
MATT: We'll find out.
It would be hard,
but it's possible.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Some rolls?
LIAM: So is it better than--
MATT: Yeah, there would be
some rolls involved likely.
LIAM: -- better than,
instead of the door then
you're talking about
down here to the curve,
underneath the cavern.
LAURA: Yeah, so like--
LIAM: Yeah, because
the more of them will have
a chance to come down.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Load the chamber.
ASHLEY: How tall is the
entrance to the ceiling?
MATT: It's about 70 or so feet,
maybe a little higher than that.
You couldn't quite see the bottom,
when you were at the top
with 60 foot darkvision,
you could see some of
the shapes of things
that were poking up,
but you could not
actually see the floor.
So it's about 70,
a little over 70 feet.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Yeah, so if they're
climbing down the rope,
they get 20 feet down. (snaps fingers)
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Ish.
LIAM: Okay, now that's that,
which we will do first.
Down here, in this chamber,
we need to have it so that
these charges need to be--
well, we will put the
door to the mansion,
which will be like our staging grounds,
inside the hallway with
these dead lizards in them.
SAM: And you will somehow
know that these--
MATT: (knocks on table)
SAM: -- intuit charges have gone off.
TRAVIS: There, right?
MATT: That's the
entranceway, that's where
the somewhat bent archway
that had the text across it.
LAURA: You could put
the, you could put--
so the wire.
LIAM: Yeah, if we are able to rest here,
in the morning, I can-- (groans)
(sighs)
LAURA: Oh right, because
that's not prepared today?
LIAM: It's not-- I don't have that
and if we set the charges,
MARISHA: You can't cross back.
LIAM: Then I can't go in there
to do anything.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay,
if you set the charges--
Okay, so if the mansion is
in the inside of the tunnel?
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Right?
And the charges are set on the far side,
like within 60 feet of
the center of the chamber
where they drop, right?
But it's not within
60 feet-- oh, it-- right?
LIAM: The charges should be
on the edges of the chamber
where there is cover for them
so that they can't be seen
floating off of the ground.
So the far end is not that good
because that's wide open over there.
TRAVIS: True.
LIAM: It would be spotted,
the best is to put
one of these busy sides,
and two on the other.
They'll still, if--
and the charges themselves
are hard to set, so.
LAURA: We have to set them--
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: Hopefully run away.
LIAM: The moment we set the charges,
we are done with this chamber until--
TRAVIS: Correct.
LIAM: -- our friends set it off.
LAURA: Okay, unless the charges are not
within 60 feet of the tunnel door,
then you could just step right
outside the tunnel door,
spider climb your way up,
and put the line
across the top of the chamber,
because the top of the
chamber is like 70 feet up.
TRAVIS: What?
LIAM: She's saying that, if I can--
SAM: That would be highly risky.
LIAM: Who has Spider Climb?
TRAVIS: Don't look at me.
LIAM: You have spider climb?
SAM: I do.
LIAM: You could cast it on me?
SAM: No.
I think I can only cast it on myself.
LIAM: And that does not work because--
ASHLEY: I could try to hold you.
TRAVIS: For one minute.
LAURA: I don't think,
or you could cast
fly on yourself and fly up.
SAM: Oh wait, no,
I can cast it on you.
I could cast it on you.
LIAM: Okay.
Which means that I could
fiddle my way up and Alarm is--
This is an if--
The alarm is a bonus
that we don't know if
we're going to get,
because it depends on if
we can rest for the night.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: One second.
Alarm-- I don't even need
a spell slot, it's low level.
But if I can climb up the
far end of the chamber
like you're talking about,
and you can make it
so that the sigil is
not going to hurt me?
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: I don't know
how fancy of a trigger I can put on this thing.
MATT: No, the--
SAM: Wait--
MATT: -- the sigil? Hmm.
LAURA: I think I can
make it a trigger for--
SAM: Regardless of
whether this Alarm spell--
MATT: "Or according to a
creature's physical characteristics,
"like weight or height
or physical kind."
LAURA: Right, but I can't--
TALIESIN: I'm losing joy for the alarm.
MATT: "You can also specify creatures
"that don't trigger the glyph."
LAURA: Oh! Specifically that doesn't--
MATT: Such as those that--
MATT: Yeah, or have a certain password
that he could say as he passes it.
LAURA: Okay, great. Oh, I love it!
LIAM: So I could, if
all goes well in there
a ways out I could
(footsteps) up the side--
we have to really look at the math
of if that far wall is away
from hiding spots with charges,
go up, set the alarm,
deedle-leedle-lee-lee come back down,
then I would have to hang out
outside the door to our tower.
And if they trigger the alarm,
it will go ding in my head as it does.
But that means like,
no one can really go to--
how do we go to sleep?
TRAVIS: I only need a short rest.
LAURA: I need to sleep.
TRAVIS: And I don't really
even need a short rest.
MARISHA: I am one with Fjord;
I don't necessarily need--
LAURA: We all sleep right
inside the door to the tower.
SAM: If the alarm doesn't
work or whatever,
how do we know that the
intuit charges have gone off?
LAURA: That's the thing.
TRAVIS: They play Yankee Doodle Dandy
when they go off.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: ♪ I'm a Yankee Doodle Da-- ♪
MATT: Like those cake candles
start singing as they burn?
LIAM: There is a-- there is
another kind of alarm.
TALIESIN: I'm also going to
say there will be screaming.
LIAM: Yeah, that's the other kind of alarm.
TALIESIN: There will be--
LAURA: You can't hear
through the doorway.
SAM: We're going to be
in another dimension.
LIAM: No, but the door can be open
and we can hang out outside the door.
SAM: But then we'll be in the
path of the intuit charge.
LAURA: Or we can leave the door open
and like, say, the minute we
hear a noise, we shut the door.
So we know if that glyph goes off,
somebody makes a noise, and then
we shut the door because it'll set--
MATT: If you're readying the door
as a readied action to slam it shut,
for when you hear or
see a certain thing,
there's a pretty good chance
you can close it before
anything gets through.
LIAM: It just means that--
SAM: Yeah, we'll hear the glyph go off,
but we won't know if the
intuit charges have gone off.
LAURA: No.
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: We'd have to wait
basically 10 seconds
and then open the door.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Well, that's not even a guarantee.
TRAVIS: Or put them at
the same distance--
SAM: Here's just a thing,
here's a thing.
LIAM: Yeah, yeah.
SAM: What if we leave Frumpkin out?
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah.
SAM: And we'll-- out of the mansion.
When the intuit charges go off--
LIAM: He's gone.
SAM: And you would feel that?
You would know that?
LIAM: I don't think I've ever felt that.
TRAVIS: Could you see
through from Frumpkin's eyes
if you're in the mansion
and he's outside and the door's closed.
LIAM: Yes.
MARISHA: Could he be a bat?
SAM: Oh, then you can do that.
LIAM: Oh, I don't know,
but not probably not to another plane.
MATT: Probably not to
another plane, unfortunately.
LAURA: Okay, okay, what if we find--
Fuck me running.
TRAVIS: What's up?
LIAM: And I would say--
LAURA: Nothing.
LIAM: I could just go into a trance
and just be looking
through Frumpkin's eyes,
but we all know that we have--
Our skills have outgrown Frumpkin,
and Lucien will see Frumpkin
if he is there.
SAM: I think I've got it.
You don't have to be in
the mansion, or sorry, tower,
when we are. Do you have to be
in there with us?
LIAM: No, that's the dome
is like that.
SAM: You make the tower.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Right?
We all go in the tower,
we go to sleep,
We have a grand old time.
You stay out of the tower,
farther away, 300 feet away,
when you hear/see those
into intuit charges go
ba-boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
you drop the tower,
we're all out, boom, it's on.
LIAM: How will I see that happen?
SAM: You'll have to keep your keen ear.
Or you can have Frumpkin!
You could have Frumpkin!
Because you'll be on the
same plane as he is.
You'll be 300 feet away,
Frumpkin will be in the room.
LAURA: What if another
salamander creature comes out
and attacks Caleb
and kills him?!
SAM: Caleb will be fine!
He's the strongest among us.
LIAM: Well, I could do the-- hmm.
I could do the dome where I am sitting.
LAURA: (gasps)
LIAM: And
Frumpkin sits at the entrance here.
LAURA: Yeah!
LIAM: But he's not
Sherlock Holmes, but he would
be able to see people falling
in the middle of the cavern.
SAM: Sure!
And then you just instantly
dispel the mansion-- the tower.
LIAM: It's true.
SAM: We're out, we're on attack.
MARISHA: But you need a full
night's rest, right? For sure.
LIAM: Uh.
LAURA: Not as much--
LIAM: Unless someone wants
to heal me up before bed,
before you go to bed because
I'm not at full right now.
LAURA: But do you have
a lot of spells left?
LIAM: Well, I used arcane recovery
when we took the short rest--
LAURA: Okay, that's good.
LIAM: -- so I got some back.
I have used one third and
one fourth, currently.
Which is not bad.
LAURA: Not bad.
SAM: Also, I could stay
out with you also.
I don't need to be in the tower.
MARISHA: Is there any reason then why
any of us need to be in
the tower at that point?
SAM: Because it's closer.
MARISHA: Oh, because it's closer.
Oh, and then we're like,
"Gah, SEAL team, go!"
SAM: The attack's on!
MARISHA: All right.
SAM: But I can be far away
because I can just run real fast.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: It'll take us about
15 seconds to close the distance
if we're 300 feet away.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: We really don't--
I mean, it's whatever.
TALIESIN: You're a lot of damage,
but yeah, that's--
TRAVIS: If they are stunned
or whatever, that's 10 rounds.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Right.
LAURA: While we're all
talking about this, Caleb,
will you turn some of
these diamonds into dust?
LIAM: That will take me
a little bit of time,
but yeah, I can do that.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Well, let's--
LIAM: Oh, but that's more
slots that we'll burn.
MARISHA: Huh?
LAURA: We need it. What do we do?
SAM: What do you need?
You need dusty diamonds?
LIAM: I could definitely do it.
SAM: For what?
LAURA: Okay, how much
diamond dust do I have?
I have 200 Gs worth of
opals, we need to--
MARISHA: I know.
MATT: I'm getting butterflies y'all.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: One more crazy idea,
I'm just going to throw it out there
because why not?
You know the tunnel that we
crawled through before the rope?
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: At the top?
SAM: Yeah, like right at the lip there.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: What if I just smeared a
bunch of my sovereign glue on it,
so while they're waiting for
the next person to go down,
they're like, "Oh fuck,
I'm stuck here forever!"
I don't know.
TRAVIS: Put sovereign glue on the rope.
SAM: Yeah. Well, they have
to touch it for a minute.
TRAVIS: Oh, I got you.
SAM: So it would have to be
while they're waiting for
their friend to go down.
LAURA: And then they'd have
to chop their own hand off
in order to get down.
You could put it, like,
smear it to where their
whole belly get stuck.
SAM: Oh yeah!
TALIESIN: Wouldn't they know?
SAM: It would have to be a hand, though,
because if it's their clothes,
they could just take off their clothes.
TALIESIN: So weird question is:
Is there a way to put some oil
down where they would drop, too,
so that we could light that
up when they hit the ground?
MARISHA: Or put the sovereign glue
where they might fall.
LAURA: And then light it up,
they're stuck there,
also the stuff comes and get them.
MARISHA: Yeah!
TALIESIN: It takes a minute.
SAM: Oh, and we have
wolverines and we let those go
and they attack, because we--
MATT: This the most
Divinity: Original Sin 2
setup for an encounter and I love it.
I love it.
TALIESIN: The fire would've cracked
the bowl, was all I was thinking.
MARISHA: How much glue do you have?
SAM: Not a lot.
MARISHA: Nah.
LAURA: But a little glue--
MARISHA: If it was a lot.
LAURA: -- and some oil,
but oil at the bottom is really smart.
That would catch and we
can set them on fire.
SAM: I could also just
put a fluffernutter down there.
LIAM: I just had the most
frustrating thought.
We're going to spend
the next hour throwing
around cockamamie bullshit
ideas, set it in place,
they're going to crawl out,
and Matt's going to go,
"And that's where we'll end things."
MARISHA: Yeah!
SAM: That's why we got to
get this going.
All right, let's launch
the plan, let's go.
This is it.
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay.
Grind some diamonds.
LAURA: I'm just going to use
the residuum dust, too, yeah,
because, I mean, what else?
TALIESIN: I've got some diamonds
if you need some diamonds.
LAURA: Okay, 200 Gs of residuum dust,
so I need
600 diamonds--
600 gold worth of--
Oh, I already have 400 gold
worth of diamond dust!
400 diamond dust,
so I need-- That's 400--
200--
LIAM: Oh boy.
SAM: We have residuum, too.
LAURA: Do you have a hundred diamonds--
a hundred gold diamond?
SAM: What? (laughs)
LAURA: I have a 300 gold diamond.
Okay, I'll take that.
MARISHA: 100 gold diamonds.
TALIESIN: I have 150 gold
diamond, if you want.
LAURA: No.
TALIESIN: Aight.
SAM: We have residuum.
LAURA: We have residuum,
but we only have
200 gold worth of residuum.
TALIESIN: It's better to use diamonds.
LAURA: 400 gold worth of diamond dust,
and then I still need another diamond.
So I need to you to turn
one diamond, this diamond,
Caleb, into dust.
LIAM: We don't have any other dust
or residuum or anything like that.
LAURA: This is everything in my--
TALIESIN: How much residuum would--
LAURA: 200 gold worth of residuum.
TALIESIN: I have 200 gold
worth of residuum--
SAM: There, we don't
need any diamond dust.
LAURA: Great, but we do need to turn
these 200 gold worth of opals into dust.
SAM: That fucking--
(laughter)
LAURA: I could just crush them with my--
Like, I could try to crush them,
opal's way softer than diamonds.
MATT: They are, do you want to try it?
SAM: What about Yasha?
Yasha could do it.
LAURA: But I don't want
to do it, like, fast,
because I don't want it to spread apart.
So I'm going to put it
down on a little thing
and I'm going to sit
and just like (grunting)
and have Yasha maybe
hammer down onto my axe
which is sitting on top of the opals.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: Oh, like a garlic?
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
ASHLEY: Like the flat of the--
LAURA: Like you do garlic.
Okay, I'm taking all of this
stuff out of my inventory.
LIAM: If it totally goes wrong
and fucked, I can fix it,
but let's see if we
can save my reserves.
ASHLEY: Let's see if we can save it.
LAURA: Okay.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: Okay.
Placing it beneath Jester's axe,
using what to crush it?
LAURA: Oh.
You choose what you want to
hammer on top of the axe.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Does anybody have a hammer?
ASHLEY: I am going to take--
TRAVIS: I do.
LAURA: You do?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay, yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh, we got a hammer.
MATT: What kind of hammer?
ASHLEY: We have a hammer?
TRAVIS: I have a climbing hammer.
ASHLEY: There you go.
TRAVIS: Hammer and my
pitons.
LAURA: That seems like
a little teeny hammer.
MATT: That's a tiny hammer.
I don't know if that's really--
TRAVIS: It's a hammer.
LIAM: Are you saying you can't
put that gem right here and just flex?
MARISHA: Aw, you beat-- yeah.
ASHLEY: I could try.
Let me try it.
LAURA: I don't want to
lose the dust, Yasha.
ASHLEY: Okay, I won't, I promise.
I'm going to try.
MARISHA: Do it.
MATT: Roll a strength check.
ASHLEY: This is so stupid.
TALIESIN: I'm not guiding that.
MARISHA: Come on, babe,
this is the hottest you've ever been.
LIAM: Maybe thighs is the way to go.
MARISHA: She's got really strong thighs.
LAURA: (cackles)
ASHLEY: Okay, this is
26.
MATT: Strength check?
ASHLEY: Wait, that doesn't make any sense,
I'm really sorry.
MATT: It's okay.
ASHLEY: Math. 24.
Nope, still wrong.
23. Jeez louise.
Sorry, I'm so tired.
TALIESIN: We're all--
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Today.
MATT: That's fantastic.
LAURA: It doesn't work.
(laughter)
MATT: As you squeeze, you do
manage to crack the opal,
which is impressive.
You don't quite turn it to dust.
ASHLEY: Well, you know, we got started.
LAURA: Yeah, that's great.
ASHLEY: Got it started, babe.
MATT: That is impressive.
ASHLEY: I cracked it
between my-- this part.
MARISHA: You need to stop,
we're not a good place.
TALIESIN: You get to say it: It's looking pretty rough.
LAURA: It is looking really rough.
ASHLEY: We'll put it under your-- Yeah.
LAURA: Now I'm going to
try the garlic paste.
What?
TALIESIN: All right. d4.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to--
ASHLEY: You're strong.
LAURA: Put-- Oh!
Here's what I'm going to do.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: I'm going to
put it on the ground.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: I'm going to take my
round shield on top of it,
and I'm going to put all my
weight and be like (grunting).
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Also, I'm going to
hammer it first with my axe,
the blunt end of my axe.
MATT: Okay, make a strength check.
LAURA: I'm going to do all of the things.
MATT: All right, make a strength check.
(laughter)
LAURA: With a d4.
TALIESIN: With a d4.
MATT: You are in this middle
of the metallic hallway or--
LAURA: No! No, of course not, Matthew!
MATT: No, I'm asking:
Where are you doing it?
LAURA: I'm going to do this--
I don't want it to be loud.
I'm going to try to do it with just my--
Fuck me running.
I'm not going to use my shield--
I'm not going to hammer.
I'm going to try do with
just my shield first,
so it doesn't make noise.
MATT: Okay. Make a strength check.
MARISHA: If we're going to summon it--
LIAM: Come on muscles, get it.
TALIESIN: I don't know.
LAURA: Motherfuck.
TALIESIN: With the d4?
LIAM: Is that the good kind of "motherfuck"?
LAURA: That was with the d4?
I got 11.
MATT: 11, so you put the
shield down and you sit on it,
it gives way.
LAURA: Oh.
MATT: The rest of you watch it go--
(high-pitched firing off)
(laughter)
Just fire off.
TRAVIS: I got it, I got it, I got it!
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: See, aren't you glad
we didn't set the intuit charges?
TRAVIS: 20, 17 plus three.
MATT: You do. You eye it as it fires off
and you manage to find out
exactly where it'd come
to rest. It is not lost.
LAURA: Thank god.
MARISHA: Do you have an alchemy kit?
LAURA: --s. Thank gods.
MARISHA: You might have a mortar and--
Does anyone have a mortar and pestle?
SAM: I had an alchemy kit
before our stuff was stolen.
MARISHA: Mm-mm.
SAM: Unless I carry it on me?
MATT: Nah, not to be stealthy. (laughs)
LIAM: Just give me the fucking stone.
MARISHA: I've got a
jeweler's kit that's got a file,
but it's going to to take a minute
for me to sit there and file it.
MATT: Yeah, that'll take a while.
LIAM: Take me five seconds to do.
LAURA: Here.
MARISHA: Sorry, Caleb.
LAURA: Here, here, here, here.
MATT: ♪ Transmutation specialist! ♪
TRAVIS and LIAM: (screechy grinding)
TRAVIS: Broken Xerox. (groaning)
MATT: Immediately (poof)
and it is opal dust.
TALIESIN: Somewhere in Exandria,
there's just a YouTube channel
of people just taking
gems going (humming).
Just like this in ASMR.
TRAVIS: Oh, it's so relaxing.
TALIESIN: Today, we're going to be doing
a baseball-sized opal.
LIAM: Here's your tapioca powder, enjoy.
MARISHA: Full hydraulic press channel.
LAURA: I also need--
MATT: (posh accent) "I spent at
least three hours last night
"lost on ScryTube for like--"
LIAM: 4th-level slot is gone.
MATT: "-- this incredible new channel."
SAM: Okay, okay.
LIAM: Ugh!
SAM: It's worth it, it's worth it.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'd watch.
MARISHA: Get ScryTube Premium, no ads.
MATT: Nobody pays for that.
TRAVIS: I don't know what was said,
but when they get down in this room,
everything from the center of the room
to the wall is toast for
the anti-magic cone.
SAM: It's toast, what do you mean?
TRAVIS: If he looks at you
all the way to the wall
in a cone, you are in it.
TALIESIN: Yep.
LAURA: Yeah, so we have to avoid him.
TRAVIS: The only advantage
to fighting outside
would be that you have
unlimited distance.
It is limited in here.
That's the biggest weak point.
TALIESIN: Yep.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: Yeah.
But we also can set our arcane--
We haven't done that yet,
the arcane magic things.
MARISHA: That happens--
LIAM: Those are for chucking
out during the fight.
MARISHA: In the top of the fight,
that's the first thing that happens.
SAM: So if a fight goes down,
we have to get in that room
and spread out.
LIAM: It's like Faerie Fire
for his cone.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll put up
that gate at the entrance
that is to the hallway and
put it at the other door
at the other end so you
can hop back and forth.
MARISHA: Yes.
SAM: All right, is it
time to set the charges?
LAURA and TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: What--
LAURA: I'm going to go set the glyph.
MARISHA: Glyph first.
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: Whew. How do you get up there?
LAURA: That's a good
question, Nott. Veth.
Shit, I'm so sorry I
keep doing that! I'm so sorry!
SAM: You can call me either.
It's fine, I don't care.
Doesn't know my name.
We've been best friends for a year now.
LAURA: Sorry.
TRAVIS: What about that detective agency?
SAM: Do you want to just
climb up and do it?
Isn't there a rope?
LAURA: There isn't a rope
that comes all the way.
Does it go all the way to the ground?
MATT: Yeah, the rope goes
all the way to the ground.
LAURA: Oh, but it's icy, isn't it?
MATT: It has a layer of frost on it
because it's been in this cold chamber.
LIAM: What if you climb up the rope
and a bunch of us just take
the bottom and walk it out
as far as we can to try
to pull you closer to--
MARISHA: That's a fun idea.
LIAM: -- the ceiling?
TALIESIN: I actually like that.
LAURA: I don't want to
accidentally pull off the rope
and it comes--
I'll just climb up the rope.
SAM: Just climb up the rope.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Yeah.
ASHLEY: You'll be fine.
MARISHA: We can always
guide you if you need it.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you.
MATT: Make an athletics check for me.
LAURA: I'm scared of my dice.
TRAVIS: Up the rope!
LAURA: This isn't a good place to be.
It's not good to be
scared of your own dice.
MARISHA: Upper body strength.
LAURA: Cool.
TRAVIS: See? The dice
can feel your fear.
LAURA: They can!
TRAVIS: Giving them too much.
LAURA: What is this, an acrobatics?
MATT: Athletics.
LAURA: (laughs)
10.
TRAVIS: You're not even going to--
SAM: A slippery rope.
LAURA: Okay, who can cast Fly?
Because this is a really slippery rope.
MATT: So Jester gets about 10 feet up
and you watch she's climbing it fine
and you're feeling good. You're like,
"Hell yeah, this rope is great."
You guys are watching
her just stay in one spot.
TRAVIS: The running man?
MATT: Yep. She slides
as much as she climbs
and is just staying at one height.
TALIESIN: -- nightmare.
(laughter)
LAURA: This is really hard.
LIAM: How much time do you need
to cast it when you're there?
LAURA: Let me find out.
MATT: One minute.
LIAM: One minute.
LAURA: A minute.
MARISHA: I like the little
groove you had going there.
SAM: I can do it, I can get her up.
LIAM: Okay, I was going to--
SAM: I will levitate you straight up.
ASHLEY: There we go.
SAM: My spells are
less important than yours.
TRAVIS: That have a range?
MATT: In this instance,
it can be really important.
LAURA: Let's make sure that
I'm in the exact right place.
LIAM: Oh, I could do
that too with the staff
which would recharge
even if I wasn't sleeping.
SAM: Do that, then.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: You can do Levitate?
LIAM: With Allura's staff, I can.
SAM: Do it.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Allura's Swiss army staff.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to get--
MATT: By the way, have you been rolling
for how many charges have come back?
LIAM: Every day?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: I haven't used it.
Yes, I have been.
When I did, the last time
I rolled to refill it
it did go to max.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: And the last time I used
it was in the murder spree.
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: In the sanitorium.
MATT: Just double checking.
LIAM: It's been a couple of days.
LAURA: Just crazy that it's
only been a couple of days.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: It's been a busy few days.
SAM: Okay, float her, come on,
we got to do this.
I want to kill something tonight.
MATT: And with that, as Caleb
holds the staff in front
and guides it upward,
you feel yourself lifted up
from within, some
sort of invisible energy
almost seems to grab you
within the chest and lift you up.
LAURA: Ooh, I feel like
it's grabbing my boobs.
LIAM: That's not intentional!
MATT: Inside.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: The panic.
SAM: Must be Allura.
MATT: But... sure.
LIAM: No, no, no!
ASHLEY: No, that's a total accident!
TALIESIN: Henry Crabgrass
is going, "Hey."
(laughter)
MATT: (as Henry Crabgrass)
"I'm not okay with this."
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Sorry.
MATT: "Now you were
supposed to be the one!
"How could you do this to me?"
As you begin to drift
upwards, eventually.
ASHLEY: I miss him.
MATT: Aw. Well, he's
out there somewhere.
(laughter)
You drift up towards the top
and find yourself now
right within the base
of that cavernous pit.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going
to reach around (laughs)
the edge of the lip
of the cavern where it opens up.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: And I'm going to try to find--
Is it rocky, is it uneven?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: So I'm going to
go behind a rock that's
dipped down, right, to where
it's hidden from the entrance?
MATT: Easy enough to
find one there, yeah.
LAURA: Okay, and I'm
going to cast the glyph
I'll make it nice and small.
MATT: So Symbol, the spell.
LAURA: The Symbol, yes,
it's called Symbol.
LIAM: What does the glyph look like?
LAURA: Take a wild guess.
LIAM: Is it a jagged dick?
LAURA: (laughs) Doesn't
have to be jagged.
It's nice and--
LIAM: But for pain!
LAURA: Oh, right, that's true.
MARISHA: Oh.
LAURA: No, it was going to be nice.
MATT: That's some Bad Dragon shit.
LAURA: It's a nice, smooth,
pretty, bubbly dick.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: -- American Horror Story--
LIAM: It's going in,
but it's not coming out.
LAURA: It's bubblegum pink
while I'm drawing it,
but it's going to disappear
as soon as I'm done.
(laughter)
LAURA: What?
MARISHA: That's a Bad Dragon--
TALIESIN: Nothing, carry on.
MATT: Yep. (lip pop) All righty.
LIAM: Yes, guys we know about
Bad Dragon. We have for years.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: "We have for years."
ASHLEY: We all have our own collection.
MATT: We have a licensing deal coming up. Shh.
MARISHA: Bubble gum pink,
with little purple swirls.
TRAVIS: (telephone ring) What, who? Oh.
MATT: [Inaudible] bed.
LAURA: Oh my god.
MARISHA: Who would
take that sponsorship?
ASHLEY: Make a Thordak--
MATT: The Conclave deal?
Anyway, sorry. Sorry.
Anyway.
ASHLEY: I don't hate it, don't hate it.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: So Jester?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: You take the minute,
which thankfully
there's no check required,
because you are gently levitating
for the process of casting
this minute-long spell.
You finish your dick Symbol
on the back of this rock
and it becomes mostly
invisible, facing outward
from anyone who is or would be
transitioning down.
So you are triggering it on what?
LAURA: I'm triggering it
on anybody coming within--
How wide is the opening here?
MATT: Above is about 20 feet radius.
And the rope is mostly
in the middle, so yeah.
LAURA: Okay, so anybody
coming within 20 feet of it.
MATT: Okay, got it. 20-foot radius.
TALIESIN: No way past.
LAURA: Right, they can't get past it.
MATT: You got it.
LAURA: And the trigger, yeah,
so the trigger will be anybody
coming within range of it,
but I will set a password on it.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: So that
if we have to, you know,
if Caleb us to do the thing,
so the password will be
dick.
(laughter)
SAM: Good password.
MATT: Would never have guessed.
(laughter)
SAM: Very original!
MATT: You're are full of
surprises, Ms. Bailey.
LIAM: Know to get into Jester's iPhone.
(laughter)
MATT: Jester, nothing,
it's how to get into Laura's--
LAURA: The password is 6969.
(laughter)
SAM: Her dog's name was Dick.
ASHLEY: Wait, did you say dick or thick?
The second one?
LAURA: No, I said dick.
ASHLEY: You said dick, okay.
I really thought you said thick, sorry.
(laughter)
MATT: Benefit of the doubt.
That's so sweet.
That's good friendship there.
All right, so the password is "dick"
for someone to not set the symbol off.
TRAVIS: I'm glad we got that cleared up.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's--
MATT: And what is the Symbol for?
LAURA: I'm setting it to be pain.
MATT: Pain.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Symbol of pain.
SAM: Somebody send Yasha to go up there.
SAM and ASHLEY: Thick.
SAM: (explosion)
ASHLEY: Thick, it's okay!
MATT: You got it.
SAM: (yell of pain)
TRAVIS: Thick. (stammering) (explosion)
MATT: Symbol of pain.
LAURA: The password is "thick dick."
And it's, yes, pain.
MATT: Symbol of pain, got it.
LIAM: Is that what it is?
TALIESIN: Actually,
"thick dick" is not bad.
LAURA: Well, you'll just
have to say it's all
just in case, because you don't know.
LIAM: No, don't give me
random things because
I'll blow myself up!
SAM: Stick with the plan,
stick with the plan.
LIAM: What is the password?
SAM: It's dick.
LAURA: If you say thick dick
you'll say the password, regardless.
You'll definitely have password.
Just say them both.
SAM: We'll be fine.
Just keep going with the plan.
I want to kill something.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LAURA: So pain, then I'm
going to say: Hey, it's set.
Please let me come back
down now, thank you.
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: I'm just floating.
SAM: Can you levitate her down?
LAURA: What, you just going
to make me fly up here
all night? What's happening?
LIAM: Sorry, I was thinking
about the password conundrum.
Come on down.
MATT: You slowly drift
back down onto your feet.
MARISHA: Maybe if you say,
"dick thick dick,"
just in case.
LIAM: You are making
it worse, Beauregard.
LAURA: It's dick, it's dick.
It's dick, Caleb.
LIAM: Thank you. I need
everything in its place,
and a place for every dick.
ASHLEY: She was far away, so
I couldn't hear, you know?
MARISHA: The echo, it's a
little echoey in this chamber,
LAURA: Sorry. And I'm going to
keep it down just in case
I'm not shouting "dick."
I'm saying it quietly, just adamantly.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: Quick pick a big thick dick to lick.
LAURA: Okay, so.
Now that we have that
part taken care of,
next step is--
SAM: Intuit charges.
LAURA: Yes.
SAM: But first the tower?
LAURA: And-- oh!
MARISHA: And the doors.
LAURA: And amidst all of this stuff--
Well, that will go up late.
TRAVIS: That's moment of, yeah.
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
LAURA: We also need to
do a Heroes' Feast.
LIAM: Well, you can
do that in the tower.
LAURA: Yes, so you can
still come into the tower,
we can leave the door
open just in casies,
or we can have the feast
right outside of the tower?
Because I thought you
weren't coming in the tower.
MARISHA: You can eat and
then go to your post.
LIAM: I can eat and go, ja.
LAURA: Yes.
All right, cool.
MARISHA: Yeah, dine and dash.
LAURA: All right.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: All right.
SAM: It's going to be great.
TALIESIN: Let's have some food.
LAURA: All right, who's
setting the charges?
SAM: Essek, Caleb.
TRAVIS and LAURA: Beau!
LIAM: Beauregard.
LAURA: Oh, right.
SAM: Beau!
MARISHA: And if you
could help me out, Jess.
And Caduceus.
A little bit of moral support.
LAURA: Oh man, I really hope we get to sleep,
because all my spells
are gone, you guys.
LAURA: Okay, yes, I'm going
to give you Enhance Ability.
MARISHA: Thank you.
LAURA: And I'm going to
give you-- what is arcana?
Is intelligence?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Which means I'm
giving you Fox's Cunning.
I'm going to draw
a beautiful little fox
on your bicep right here.
MARISHA: Aww, it's kind of cute.
I like that. Could be a good tattoo.
ASHLEY: Yeah, it would be a good tattoo.
MARISHA: Okay. Are you blessing me, too?
Thank you.
LAURA: That's Guidance.
MARISHA: Guidance.
TALIESIN: Guidance, yeah. d4.
MATT: For one minute.
SAM and MARISHA: One minute.
MATT: "Are we to take these?
Where are we to set them up?"
"Following your order."
LIAM: Let's do two
over in the remnants of this tower
and the rubble a bit away from it,
and I will do one straight across.
LAURA: The goal is to be within 60 feet
of the middle of the room,
but not 60 feet within the tunnel.
MATT: "All right."
Essek takes his
Frost Ray and clears out.
SAM: Nice.
MATT: A bunch of the--
MATT: Because if he has
to go back to set this,
he's not about to set off
a bunch of angry mold in his path.
With that, he comes over
and prepares to set his up over there.
MARISHA: Okay.
Is that within 60 feet?
Is that within 60 feet of the drop?
TRAVIS: Off the center? Yeah.
MATT: Yeah, 60 feet's about there.
MARISHA: All right. Okay, okay.
TRAVIS: If he stands in
the middle of the cave,
everybody's fucked to the wall.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: In the cone of antimagic.
MATT: All right, and then?
LIAM: Before we do that,
and we're going to
call out to each other
when we're going to do this or whisper.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
LIAM: Stage whisper.
I'm going to cast
Fortune's Favor on myself.
MATT: Essek, of course,
casts it on himself as well.
LIAM: Another slot gone.
LAURA: Smart.
ASHLEY: Good, good.
MARISHA: I really hope we get to sleep.
Oh my god.
LAURA: Otherwise, it's
going to be physical.
MARISHA: (unsure sounds)
MATT: Caleb, you said
you're climbing up here.
LIAM: Oh, yeah, mm-hmm.
LAURA: Amidst the rubble, but like--
LIAM: Amidst the rubble.
LAURA: -- hidden as much as possible.
LIAM: Yeah, and there's a
crack between the cavern
and that wall that Caleb's
standing on so in there, ja.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: So that it does not break.
MATT: So that'll put
you right about there.
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: As you're setting it in that space.
LAURA: And Beau, where are you?
MARISHA: I'll do the-- oh god,
I've got a bad view. Adjacent to--
LAURA: Well, make sure it's not 60 feet
within the tunnel entrance.
MARISHA: But not-- yes.
MATT: Over here?
LAURA: So maybe on the opposite side.
MATT: Opposite side?
MARISHA: Oh, right because
we don't want to get hit.
I did a Taliesin, I hit the monitor.
TALIESIN: Wow.
MATT: So over here?
MARISHA: So yeah,
maybe pocket it over here.
MATT: Okay. Essek--
ASHLEY: You got called out!
MATT: Essek will have to
burn away the the mold over there,
because that's right in the
middle of a bunch of mold.
TALIESIN: I feel like the mold hurts us
more than it helps us
in this terrain, anyway.
TRAVIS: Yeah, get rid of it.
MATT: All right, so Essek goes and
does a full clearing of this here,
to make it a clean space
for you to work with.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
It's just something for
us to get shoved into.
LIAM: (like Henry Crabgrass)
Hey, buddy, ask first.
SAM: Should I--
Should I also bury a fluffernutter
somewhere around here?
MARISHA: Like, right in
the center or something?
SAM: Yeah. In case a fireball
goes off or something.
LAURA: Ooh, yeah, we can like--
Do we have any oil?
We can put oil in the middle.
TRAVIS: We have one minute
to do this thing, you guys--
MATT: Caleb, what level was the spell
you cast to turn it into--?
LIAM: Oh, that's 4th-level.
MATT: 4th-level.
Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
LIAM: Okay.
That is a two.
MATT: Okay, you're fine.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh, Matt, do I need
to roll a d20 for my Symbol?
MATT: Yes, you do. I keep
having to remember this stuff.
So yeah, any spell 3rd-level or higher,
just keep it in mind.
LIAM: 3rd-level or higher?
MATT: 3rd-level or higher for this.
LAURA: Five.
MATT: You're fine.
LAURA: It's just a one or a 20, right?
MATT: No.
LAURA: Oh, we don't know what it is?
MATT: Now you're in
Aeor proper. Shit get weirder.
LAURA: Oh fuck.
LIAM: Now it's weird.
TRAVIS: Don't let it scare you.
TALIESIN: Don't let it
spook you, we got a plan.
MARISHA: We got a plan.
TALIESIN: If we have to, we'll throw
a fluffernutter, so that's the--
MATT: So what are you doing?
LIAM: Well, if we're going to do that,
we need to do it before
we set the charges.
MARISHA: Yes, and before I get--
LIAM: And it needs to be--
Lucien can see.
It needs to be well concealed.
SAM: Yeah, I'm confident.
Yeah, I'll go to the middle
and I'll bury a bomb,
loosely in the snow.
Is it snow?
No, it's not snow. We're not outside.
MATT: It's ice and rubble.
SAM: Ice and rubble.
LIAM: So put a pile
with a little bit of--
SAM: Yeah, rubble around.
LIAM: And what sets it off?
Us firing on it?
SAM: You would have to set
it off with a Fireball.
LIAM: I'm going to be
very far away, but--
LAURA: Yeah, Fireball.
TALIESIN: Well, remember the, yeah.
ASHLEY: The intuits, I mean--
TALIESIN: Fire and Lucien
don't necessarily--
ASHLEY: Plus if the charges go--
SAM: Is he immune to fire?
TALIESIN: He gets-- it's half damage.
LIAM: But he's got friends.
MARISHA: I know, it's hard not to think
about them like grenades.
SAM: It's just a maybe.
LAURA: Nott, get out of
there after you do it
as fast as you can.
MATT: You doing it, Nott?
MARISHA: We'll hear it go boom.
SAM: Trying to make it look
very, very, very inconspicuous.
MATT: Okay.
MATT: This is a camouflaging-type scenario here;
this would be a survival check for me.
SAM: Survival check?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: You're good at that.
LAURA: Just put a plank of wood over it or something.
SAM: I was thinking sleight of hand or something.
MATT: Sleight of hand is being able to grab something
without seeing. This is taking the space around you
and carefully hiding something.
SAM: Beauregard, come check my work.
Oh wait, someone come check my work.
LAURA: I have a plus five survival, I can --
TRAVIS: Do you want me to come check your work?
SAM: Someone come check my work.
TRAVIS: I'll make sure it looks-- to a stranger's eyes.
LAURA: Yeah, Fjord's good at checking.
LIAM: Where you at?
MARISHA: Fjord's good at this.
LIAM: Okay. Five, five.
SAM: Anyone.
ASHLEY: Are we all five?
MARISHA: Not as good as him.
SAM: Yeah, that's a four.
TRAVIS: I'm assisting you.
SAM: Okay, what does that mean?
MATT: Roll with advantage.
MARISHA: Come on, come on bish.
SAM: Oh, better. 11.
MATT: Okay, you have hidden it
somewhere in this space, you believe.
LAURA: But Fjord is right there, can't you see
that it's not hidden very well?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Person who we don't want to perceive it--
TRAVIS: 13.
LIAM: -- can see God.
MATT: 13?
I mean, it's not the best job,
but it looks like some of the rubble around it.
TRAVIS: Do you mind if I just
take some of this loose ice and snow
and maybe just cover up the brown of the barrel
a little bit?
SAM: We could ditch this idea entirely.
LAURA: Hide it behind some of the tower rubble,
like hide it against the tower.
Way easier to hide it over there.
SAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: The whole point is they're incapacitated
on top of it, though.
LAURA: Sure, but if-- sure.
SAM: Ditch the idea.
TRAVIS: Ditch it, take it back.
SAM: Ditching the idea.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Not worth the risk.
TALIESIN: We're so good at this.
MATT: (laughs)
LIAM: So everyone except for Essek,
you and I and Beauregard,
please enter the hallway, salamander hall, now.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: All right.
MARISHA: Salamander Hall.
MATT: Everyone else is moving
way over to the salamander hallway
where the intersection is.
Got it.
You all shift over there while the three of you,
of which Beauregard only has eyeline with Caleb
and Caleb only has an eyeline to Essek.
You're all clutching one of these three intuit charges,
looking over the intricate designs
that are scrolled into it.
MARISHA: So we'll follow you.
LIAM: I'm going to to call eins, zwei, drei,
and then you do it and if it doesn't work, take it with you.
MARISHA: Do we go on drei or do we go
on the imaginary four?
LIAM: You go on drei.
Eins, zwei--
MARISHA and LIAM: Drei.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: Ja.
Okay. Here we go.
MARISHA: Oh shit, okay!
LAURA: You get advantage.
MARISHA: I get advantage and a d4.
TRAVIS: You've been studying
your whole life for this.
LIAM: Eins, zwei, drei.
MATT: You all at once press into it.
MARISHA: Thank god.
MATT: He's going to go ahead and take his re-roll.
SAM: Re-roll?
LAURA: Oh yeah, because he did a Fortune's Favor.
LIAM: 27.
SAM: Ooh, pretty good.
MATT: 22.
MARISHA: 22.
(cheering)
MARISHA: That advantage was everything!
MATT: At once, you all together, click, release
and set down and they all drift to the ground.
And at first there's a moment of like, "Did it work?"
Then you watch as all of the various grooves throughout
the different moving plates pulse with a dull blue-green
light, a one time, a second time
and it begins to lift off the ground.
"All right, move. Everyone move!"
LIAM: ♪ Hup hup hey ho hey ho hi ♪
MATT: You all begin to run rapidly out this way.
Essek gliding through the ruin.
Caleb rushing.
Caleb, I'm going to need you to go ahead and--
LIAM: You fucker.
MATT: You're up a bunch of rocks and ruin, dude!
LIAM: Still a fucker. What do you want?
(laughter)
MATT: Make an athletics or acrobatics check, your choice.
LIAM: Athletics or acrobatics?
Those are my strong suits.
MATT: I know.
LIAM: Acrobatics. Oh, good, five.
LAURA: Did you use your Fortune's Favor already?
LIAM: No.
13.
MATT: 13, you stumble a bit and hit a loose rock,
fall, but manage to go into your tumble
and catch back on the ground and keep running.
MARISHA: Yo.
MATT: You slow down a little bit.
TRAVIS: He's throwing
the grenade, it falls down behind him.
MATT: It slows you down a bit and the other two,
as you get up, are like, "Come on, come on, come on."
And you catch up to them at about the 20 or so second mark
cause you did take a bit of a tumble
but, now you have another 30 seconds before these set
and you feel like you can make the distance without issue.
MARISHA: Faster. Go. Move.
MATT: As the three of you immediately exit the chamber
looking behind, you watch as all three at once,
just a slight half second from each other, go
(arcane whirring)
and then just gently, quietly floating.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
LIAM: Now, full disclosure, for the (stammering) Inuit--
MATT: Intuit charge.
LIAM: Damn it, intuit charge.
MARISHA: I fucked everyone up.
MATT: Yeah, Marisha set you on a dark path.
LIAM: I rolled both dice at the same time thinking advantage
when it's supposed to be one and then you can
choose the other one, but both those dice--
so if you want to fudge about what I just did,
but both my rolls were high.
So if I had gone with either one of those.
It was supposed to be one roll,
and then Fortune's Favor is if you're like,
"Shit, I didn't do it," re-roll.
I just went (boom), but they were both really high.
So if you want me to fall down there, I will.
MATT: Wait, so...
TRAVIS: He rolled two dice
for the set intuit charge--
LIAM: On the roll for the--
TRAVIS: -- instead of one.
MATT: Oh, got you.
LIAM: -- intuit charge,
I rolled two d20s at one time.
LAURA: But both were super high.
Neither one was low.
LIAM: Thinking, "I'm rolling at advantage."
MATT: If you did that, then you would have tumbled.
LIAM: Well, let's tumble, then.
MATT: Okay. So Caleb tumbles a bit and gets his foot
lodged in some of the rocks there.
MARISHA: You-- Oh shit!
SAM: Go get him!
MARISHA: Okay. Can I see this happen
as I'm power walking by?
LAURA: "Power walking." (laughs)
LIAM: I will ignite the boots I have
and fly the fuck out of there.
SAM: Oh.
MATT: Okay.
So as Essek and Beauregard turn around
and notice that he's stuck, you go ahead and
charge them and, as you do,
for a moment, you're about to turn and go help him
before he just like Cannonball of the X-Men, just
(roaring sound)
takes off and charges past both of you,
into the chamber before, catching onto your feet.
And now he's ahead of both of you.
MARISHA: (stammer) Let's go. Essek, let's go.
Okay, come on.
MATT: "It was interesting. Indeed."
And he floats quickly alongside you as you all--
He's a little slower, but nevertheless you all manage to
convene with the rest of the group.
Thank you for being honest about that.
LIAM: I wasn't sure. I was like, what do I do? What do I do?
MATT: No worries.
ASHLEY: (laughs) It must be nice.
MATT: All right.
So you all gather.
The charges set, the Symbol's set.
You are all now at the intersection.
What do you do?
LIAM: Burn another fucking spell slot, apparently.
LAURA: We need to do Heroes' Feast.
SAM: And the tower?
LIAM: Well, you mean, I might as well do tower
because another creature could come.
So it's better that we have the door to shut.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: Hold on.
Frumpkin, white.
MATT: (meows)
LIAM: A cat is here.
So will you sit just within the hallway here?
And if you hear anything or see anything,
please come let me know.
I'm going to leave the door to the tower open over here.
So you just come over to me
and let me know if you see anything, okay.
If I'm inside, you might not be able to talk to me.
Things get weird.
TALIESIN: Weird question, does the
cat know how to shut the door?
LIAM: Well, he does not have opposable thumbs.
TALIESIN: No, I mean, just--
LIAM: Well, he could try.
TALIESIN: Just curious.
MATT: (uncertain meow)
ASHLEY: He could lift with his tail.
LAURA: Let's make the tower so I can set up this feast.
TRAVIS: We should also tell the rangers outside
that if the coast is clear to make sure there aren't
any tracks leading into the entrance
to the crawl space, just in case we were messy.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Especially if they're good at covering up tracks.
MARISHA: Especially after we murdered some giants.
So I'm sure we left a trace.
MATT: Yeah.
You tried to cover--
MARISHA: We did a little, right?
MATT: Yeah. Essek goes ahead and relays the message
and, "They're going to do what they can."
LAURA: Okay. Tower?
LIAM: Yeah. I shove the wand into some loose rubble,
in front of a section of the wall
and lay out the bits of glass
and, in moments, just laid within the wall,
like I've cut a rectangle in the wall.
MATT: "Impressive."
LIAM: Come inside, you should see it.
MATT: "But of course."
LAURA: I go inside and immediately
start casting Heroes' Feast.
MATT: All right. Roll me a d20 please.
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Does it count if you're in--
MARISHA: A pocket dimension?
LIAM: Ten.
MATT: Okay. You're fine.
LAURA: If I'm in the pocket dimension,
do I still have to roll the d20 for the Heroes' Feast?
MATT: You'll find out.
LAURA: I cast Heroes' Feast.
MATT: Within the tower?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: You're fine.
LAURA: (sigh of relief) Okay, good.
TALIESIN: Good to know.
LAURA: Okay. That uses the jeweled chalice
that we bought.
LIAM: So tense.
LAURA: Oh, I do, I have two jewel chalices, look at that.
MATT: All right, how long does it take to cast?
LAURA: 10 minutes.
MATT: 10 minutes to cast, all righty.
And then it's an hour to eat?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: You got it, all right--
SAM: While she's casting, I'm going
to stick my head out of the--
is anyone out of the tower?
TRAVIS: I'm out.
SAM: You're out?
Okay, good.
MATT: Okay, you're keeping watch?
TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm full up.
I mean, I'll take a short rest whenever it's available,
but that's all I need for now.
TALIESIN: You got to eat the Heroes' Feast, though, but --
TRAVIS: Yes.
MARISHA: I can also be on sentry duty.
I have full hit points and full ki points, so.
SAM: Well, we just need one person out there.
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
I'm just saying I can trade off with you, maybe.
TRAVIS: You want the hallway or the roof?
You're more perceptive than I am, right?
MARISHA: I have a plus four to my perception.
I have a really high passive perception.
TRAVIS: I just asked about your perception.
It's okay.
(laughs)
We're actually about the same.
We'll trade off.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: All right.
So as this is happening, Essek walks
into the tower and looks around.
"This is quite impressive.
"Is this of your own design?"
LIAM: Yeah, I've spent several months tinkering on it.
It's for these chuckleheads.
Look though, this is your influence.
Pointing at the stained glass window devoted to Dunamancy.
MATT: "Happy to contribute to an otherwise
"prominent Zemnian influence.
"But,
"truth be told,
"the better elements of Zemnian architecture."
LIAM: In the best of all choices, there would be less,
less walls between us in general.
Some day, some century, maybe.
MATT: "Maybe."
LIAM: Thank you for coming with us this far.
We could all very well die tomorrow.
MATT: "Well, isn't that the truth of every day, though?"
LIAM: Hmm.
All right, well.
LAURA: Essek, what's your favorite food?
MATT: "Me?"
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: "I don't believe anyone's
ever asked me that question."
SAM: You seem like a crepe person.
LAURA: Ooh.
MATT: "Interestingly enough, I'm...
"and I hope this does not sound strange,
"I'm a fan of simple soups.
"Stews."
LAURA: Really?
Stews?
Okay.
Like beef stew?
MATT: "Robust inclusion of all
sorts of flavors and herbs, yes."
LAURA: Okay, sure.
TALIESIN: That sounds nice.
LAURA: Doesn't really go
with the cakes and the waffles,
but sure.
SAM: Soup and cake?
LAURA: Yeah, it could be stew.
SAM: ♪ Cake'in' my way ♪
LAURA: In--! (laughs)
In bread bowls.
MARISHA: Oh, hell yeah.
LAURA: Stews for everyone.
Oh, nice deep red wines
to go with stews.
LIAM: So you like a good crock pot.
LAURA: That sounds wonderful.
MARISHA: Yeah.
Now we know what to get him for Christmas.
LAURA: Nice crispy bugs.
ASHLEY: There we go, a little bit of spice, flavor.
LAURA: Veggie cous cous
and some veggie dishes.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm already there.
Excellent.
LAURA: Roasted carrots. Yum.
MARISHA: Mm.
TALIESIN: Veggie stew goes great.
LAURA: Fjord?
TRAVIS: Stew's good.
LAURA: Stew's good?
TALIESIN: Clam chowder.
SAM: Some fish for him.
LAURA: Some calamari.
(laughter)
SAM: Got some rosé, I'm fine.
LAURA: Okay. And Caleb?
LIAM: Oh, um, spaetzies.
LAURA: I don't know what spaetzies are.
LIAM: Spaetzles, uh...
SAM: Spaetzle.
LIAM: It's Zemnian, it's a noodle--
SAM: It's like a doughy noodle.
LIAM: Noodles, yeah.
SAM: Like a--
LIAM: Zemnian.
SAM: -- German--
LIAM: What?
SAM: Sorry.
LAURA: Doughy noodles. I'm going to really try to--
LIAM: You know you could just go with a good schnitzel.
SAM: Like a German gnocchi.
LAURA: Yes, I do a good schnitzel.
Definitely, that's what it will be then.
LIAM: That's a different thing.
That is like a breaded cutlet of chicken.
LAURA: Oh, okay, yeah, I could do that.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LAURA: Schnitzel it is.
TRAVIS: If you're doing breaded chicken,
I mean, I'll take a fish and chips
if we're breading, like if we're frying.
LIAM: Oh, you're into role play.
LAURA: I'll make you a fish and chips.
I'm just going to make it like the biggest fucking feast.
Everybody's favorite food.
Enough for everybody else to try.
You know what I mean?
Like giant family style.
LIAM: It's like Sizzler, all you
can eat, 50 different things.
LAURA: Yes.
SAM: Weird buffet.
LAURA: Complete--
Oh yeah, totally gross buffet.
None of it goes together, but it all looks really lovely.
Because it's on really beautiful,
like a tea party sort of plates.
Different levels.
SAM: Pizza. Some sushi.
TRAVIS: Can you also make some Zantac 75?
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: Some mandarin oranges in a bowl.
SAM: Corn.
MATT: "Are you alright with me looking around?
"I'm just curious to see the space."
LAURA: Just be back in 10 minutes, Essek,
'cause this takes an hour to eat.
SAM: And don't go on the 8th floor.
MATT: "I don't see any stairs. Is there a particular--"
MARISHA: Oh, just--
SAM: Up!
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "Up!
"Whoa."
MARISHA: You have to say it like that every time, though.
MATT: "Magic is a very specific--"
MARISHA: A hundred percent.
MATT: And as he drifts up through the center,
looking around,
nodding with a slight smile to the side of his face.
But yeah, so.
LIAM: Who's doing sentry right now?
SAM: Fjord's outside.
LIAM: So sentry means getting ready to slam the door shut,
if you hear--
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: "Ow!"
LIAM: Okay.
All right, if that's the case, I will follow up, too.
I'm not going to take long,
but I'll give him the highlights of the place.
MATT: All right.
Have you rearranged the space since last time you--
made an architectural change?
LIAM: Oh, yeah.
All the--
LAURA: Not the hot tub, leave the hot tub.
LIAM: It folds into the closets.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: This place follows logic and reason.
TRAVIS: Design.
Intentional design.
MARISHA: That was the better version, let's be real.
LIAM: We enlarged-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
MATT: "Continuing this path, it would not be long
"until you are creating your own permanent demi-plane."
LIAM: Do you fuck with that at all?
LAURA: (laughs)
LAURA: "Do you fuck with that?"
MATT: "I would like to eventually...
fuck with demi-planes, yes.
"But I'm still expanding my research."
LIAM: Here.
We are pressed for time, so let me show you one room
in particular that you would appreciate.
MATT: "Please, lead on."
LIAM: You don't have to say "up."
You just have to think it.
MATT: "It is fun to say, though."
LIAM: It's true.
Up.
MATT: "Up."
LIAM: So we'll just continue to spiral up
and pass by library, bed chambers, more bed chambers.
This is where we eat.
There's lots of pies.
This area is complicated.
And then I will mutter my few words of Zemnian
to the entrance to the ninth floor
and float him up into the chamber full of stars
and possibility and illusion.
MATT: "Ah, indeed, I see the inspiration for this chamber
"is strongly worn on your sleeve.
"Already a quick student of Dunamancy, are you?"
LIAM: I have taken your lessons to heart.
MATT: "You spoke once of intent,
"lot of fortunes have changed since.
"What is your goal?
"Ultimately?"
LIAM: I think my priorities have mostly shifted
since we last spoke about things like this.
I think what's going on right now is more important than
my petty, earthly grievances.
Still very much fascinated with and attracted to
ability and skill.
And it's not fashionable to say, but to power.
Who doesn't feel the tug of such a thing?
But, uh--
yeah, I said it knowing what your reaction
was going to be.
I see you outside.
(laughs)
But it doesn't matter.
There are bigger things than you and I.
MATT: "I think that's the key.
"The pursuit of magic, in the ways that we know it,
"in the ways that we've been disparately,
"but in some ways similarly raised and studied.
"At a certain point, it becomes about the self.
"It becomes about what I can do.
"And it's impressive that you've deviated
"at your skill level.
"I just hope it holds."
LIAM: That's the key, isn't it?
Because if you were to put the very thing
that I have wondered about for so many years in front of me,
I'm really not sure what my reaction would be.
MATT: "You're still very young."
LIAM: You've been around a while longer.
MATT: "A bit.
"I know what pursuits of
"the mysteries of magic can bring.
"Good and bad.
"The fact that you can acknowledge this path gives me hope,
"but...
"well..."
LIAM: The one thing that has stayed true though, is that I--
well, I carry a lot of sins, like you do.
MATT: "Not anywhere like I do."
LIAM: Don't be so sure.
MATT: Looks down to catch your attention.
"I'm pretty sure, young man."
LIAM: I will take you at your word.
Everything that I worked for for so many years was to
atone.
And I still want that.
I'm just questioning if there is only one
path to that atonement.
I don't
fool myself into thinking that I will
absolve myself of those things.
But I think-- I think that if I do enough,
I can at least carry it more easily.
Do you know what I mean?
MATT: "I think I do.
"Well."
LIAM: You know what a bunch of wizards in one place is?
Fucking trouble.
MATT: "(lightly laughs)"
MATT: "Well, if nature and history has taught us anything,
"eventually, it's just one left."
LIAM: Come on, let's go down.
LAURA: I shout up: food's ready!
MATT: (laughs)
You all come to the majestic spread that Jester
has magically produced for you.
All manner of flavors and scents.
An odd mixture of all kinds of delicacies.
MARISHA: Everything's fried!
LAURA: Not everything, no, no, no, no, no,
there's veggies, there's veggies and stew.
It's not all fried.
TALIESIN: I'm up for fried food,
it's just fried veggies.
It's great.
MARISHA: What I love is all fried.
(laughter)
MARISHA: This is great.
LAURA: There's lots of desserts, too.
MATT: "This is actually quite delicious, thank you."
LAURA: You're welcome.
MARISHA: Deep fried Oreos.
LAURA: Oh so good!
ASHLEY AND MARISHA: Deep fried Twinkies.
SAM: I'll eat fast and then go tell Fjord.
Why don't you go in and eat?
LAURA: Yeah. Because it only lasts for an hour
and everybody has to eat in an hour.
So you guys have to come in and eat.
We can just do it with the door open.
SAM: Swap.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Okay, yeah.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: Total buffet style, Sizzler.
MATT: Your meal is quickly received.
The hour of conversation and enjoyment of it
comes to a conclusion.
Seemingly uneventful.
LAURA: Sprinkle's gorging himself.
MATT: Oh yes.
Desperately hungry.
SAM: First meal in months.
MARISHA: Since the last Heroes' Feast.
LAURA: So at the end of it, if we, you know,
aren't dead by the end of the meal.
MARISHA: Great.
LAURA: Everybody gets two d10 additional hit points.
MARISHA: Oh yeah, that's right.
LAURA: And the maximum also increases by two d10,
so you can get healed beyond--
MARISHA: Above that.
Do you roll for that or do we roll individually?
LAURA: I think I'll roll the d10s, I imagine.
And everybody just gets it?
LIAM: I roll so good though, okay.
LAURA: I mean, unless-- how do you want to do it?
Do you want everybody to roll individual or me to roll it?
MATT: Actually, you should roll for this.
And everybody gets that amount.
That's the best way to do it.
LAURA: Okay I'm sorry, cause I usually--
MARISHA: Roll fucking big.
MATT: That's okay.
LAURA: (rolls tongue)
MARISHA: Big money.
No.
LIAM: Two? Is it two?
Is it three?
LAURA: It's two.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Wait, like, one and a one?
MARISHA: You rolled two ones?
MATT: Oh, Laura, but you know what?
TRAVIS: Did you really?
You rolled two ones?
MARISHA: Holy shit.
LAURA: Beebee, I rolled two ones.
LIAM: Man, the 14 I rolled is so much better than two.
MATT: Hey, you know what though?
MARISHA: Two.
MATT: How many times does it come
down to one or two hit points?
SAM: That's true.
MARISHA: Yeah, true, we'll take it.
LAURA AND MARISHA: It could have been 20.
MATT: It could have been.
But at least everyone's also immune to poison,
they're immune to fear.
LAURA: I'm sorry.
MARISHA: Immune to fear is huge because
didn't he pull that shit on us a decent amount
when we fought him last, Lucien?
TALIESIN: Immunity to poison--
SAM: We 10 more HP, higher modifier, something?
What is it?
No, no, no, but you said your hit point max goes up?
Oh, by two.
LAURA: By two!
SAM: Oh, okay.
MATT: Damn it, Sam!
Just talked her from the edge.
ASHLEY: Two hit points.
We have immunity to poison and fear.
MARISHA: Which is huge.
ASHLEY: That's great.
LAURA: And you get--
(heavy sigh)
You get advantage on
wisdom saving throws.
ASHLEY: That's huge.
LAURA: Which is good.
MATT: That's incredible.
All right.
MARISHA: On wisdom.
LAURA: What a fucking joke!
LIAM: No, it's not, wisdom advantage is huge.
MARISHA: That's honestly the most important part.
MATT: Yeah, the hit points is
just like a side bonus.
MARISHA: They're the croutons
on top of this salad.
LIAM: Plus you won a BAFTA.
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: You're fine.
SAM: Weeks ago.
MARISHA: Max made us margies.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Weeks ago.
LIAM: Win a BAFTA every week or shut the fuck up.
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
So the meals are complete.
You take the boons of the divine meal you've received.
What now?
LAURA: I immediately lay down
like a Sumo wrestler
and try to go to sleep.
LIAM: Ooh.
TALIESIN: Take a nap.
TRAVIS: We'll open the door again.
MATT: Okay, door is open.
MARISHA: I'll be on rotation with Fjord.
TRAVIS: But do we hear anything?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Assist or roll as well?
LIAM: I need to-- yeah.
I need to set the dome up
300 feet away from
inuit charges immediately.
TRAVIS: Great, go.
MARISHA: I'll roll, I'll roll.
LIAM: But I don't want to
wander off by myself.
SAM: I will go with you.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: Oh god, I hope you rolled
something better than I did.
TRAVIS: 19.
MARISHA: Okay, good. I rolled a nine.
MATT: Okay.
The two of you, walking the perimeter of the nearby hallway
around this intersection.
It feels pretty safe.
You don't hear any additional noise,
anything that catches your attention.
It's as still as you
expected, or hoped, at least.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: We're walking towards
the Praesidis Ward.
LIAM: Yes.
MATT: How far back?
LIAM: So we know that from
the places where we set those charges
that it's at least 70 feet to the arch.
So we can then game out that
we need another 230 feet
and with Keen Mind,
I think that we could hold hands
and take steps and go one, two, three
and figure out the max for what
300 feet would be in this.
MATT: It would be
partially up the incline.
LIAM: That's fine.
And so I will go an extra 15 feet.
SAM: To the top of the incline.
LIAM: As close to the bottom as I can be
while being outside of 300 feet.
SAM: I don't think we want to
sit on incline, we'll slide down.
MATT: Yeah. It's a pretty harsh angle.
LIAM: The further back we go, though.
SAM: I know, but how are
we going to stay here?
We're on a slope. It's 45 degrees.
MATT: There is rubble and stuff there.
There's maybe a place that you could--
the two of you could
maybe just try and sit
and make it work, but it's
going to be precarious.
LIAM: Well, I also have to
cast the damn spell.
SAM: Okay. Go for it.
If we can find a spot.
MARISHA: How long is the incline?
TRAVIS: About 20.
MARISHA: It's long, right?
MATT: It's pretty long.
LIAM: I don't want to go
an extra hundred feet away.
We'll never make it.
SAM: Try to dig out a spot.
LIAM: Ritually cast the hut here.
MATT: Just two of you, one of you being a halfling,
I think that'll--
Make a perception check.
LIAM: We've slept on top of
each other before;
we're not even going to sleep.
18 plus-- 27.
MATT: Yeah, following the rope
that's still dangling there
as an aid, you can easily
find a bit of broken rubble
that can support your weight together.
It's not the most comfortable space,
but you can definitely
sit and feel like you can
at least not slide down
and possibly set up the dome.
LIAM: And I actually take the
rope and just, not knot it,
but give it like a one circle around
so that it's like a little,
just a little bit of holding
me in place while I cast.
So I will take the time to cast the dome
and I will release Frumpkin
and then make him appear
here and tell him again:
Okay, so I'm going to go inside
your mind and I need you to go
sit in the same exact place
and I will be watching.
Okay.
MATT: (meows)
LIAM: If all goes well,
there's going to be a bit of an eruption
and when that happens, you're
going to go home for a bit.
MATT: (meows)
LIAM: Okay.
Take this before you go.
MATT: (purring)
LIAM: All right. Thank you and I'm sorry.
Okay. Off you go.
MATT: (meows)
He darts off and heads down the hall.
LIAM: Place my hand on Veth's shoulder and
I am blind and deaf
and I am the cat.
MATT: As you're looking through
the eyes of Frumpkin,
you follow as he trucks
down past the entranceway
to the tower, past the intersection
and then once more to
the archway that leads
into the entrance tunnel
where the traps have been set,
but not within the radius.
SAM: Yeah.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
I can't hear anything,
but I say: So, you know,
don't let anything eat us or kill us.
SAM: Sure, sure.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Give him a little
squeeze on his arms.
MATT: All right, and so are you setting up the dome?
LIAM: I did that already.
MATT: Okay. Sorry, you did that already.
LIAM: Yep.
MATT: So the dome is set up
and you are just maintaining concentration.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
And so you wait.
You all are sleeping, except for you two?
MARISHA: We'll trade off unless
anybody else needs to sleep?
TRAVIS: Beau and I outside, listening.
ASHLEY: If you want to come
get me at any point.
MARISHA: Okay.
ASHLEY: I'll try to get--
I want to try to get some sleep
in because I'm pretty low.
MARISHA: Get some sleep.
ASHLEY: But wake me up,
when you're done.
MARISHA: Okay.
I give Yasha a little kiss and a little tap.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: (kiss noise)
Get some rest.
ASHLEY: Give her a little slappies.
Not a slappies, just
little tappies on the tush.
MARISHA: Whatever you want.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: But aren't you sleeping?
LAURA: I'm trying to.
ASHLEY: Yeah, wake me up when you're tired.
SAM: ♪ Wake me up ♪
MARISHA: ♪ Before you go go ♪
MATT: As you all are napping,
there's the far edge of the tower.
Essek is, as opposed to
laying down and sleeping,
is sitting in a
cross-legged, meditative way.
Just gently floating about
a foot above the ground
and in his reverie-type
sleep, is concentrating.
MARISHA: I don't levitate when I meditate.
I wonder if he could teach me that.
MATT: You'll have to ask him later.
First hour goes by without issue.
LAURA: I know we're not going to get a full night.
MATT: Second hour goes by without issue.
Third hour goes by without issue.
Fourth hour goes by without issue.
LIAM: I need to ask the group a thing.
The door is shut, right?
ASHLEY: I thought it was open? |
LIAM: The door should be shut.
TALIESIN: The door is shut, yeah.
LIAM: Because I'm the one
opening it after the-- if it's not.
MARISHA: Do you need to rest though,
can you rest while watching?
LIAM: No, no.
LAURA: He doesn't get to rest.
LIAM: I'm not going to be--
This is the gamble.
I'm not going to be at full at all.
LAURA: But everybody else
has to be in the tower.
LIAM: In fact, I'm not
even at full hit points.
MATT: Essek does get a
full rest because as an elf,
he only needs four hours
for a full night's sleep.
ASHLEY: That's so cool.
LAURA: Seriously?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Campaign three!
MARISHA: We all have to be elves next.
(laughter)
LAURA: Hmm.
MARISHA: Oh, hmm.
MATT: That's universally how elves are.
(pretentiously) Mm, oh, mm.
LIAM: So the door is shut?
MARISHA: Sure, sure.
LIAM: Okay, as you were.
MATT: The rest of you are
in there, resting, sleeping.
LAURA: Okay, so that's why
you were counting the hours.
Because Essek got a full night's sleep
and then we're going to
wake up at six hours
and not get a full night's sleep.
MATT: But at hour five--
SAM: (laughs)
Yeah.
MATT: Essek, who's walking around,
not even walking, drifting
through the tower,
pulls the stone out and looks about
the quiet space as the
rest of you are sleeping.
All right, is anybody still up?
Everyone else still sleeping?
MARISHA: I imagine Fjord
and I probably fell asleep
by the door and are
nodding off, in and out.
MATT: Essek drifts over to you, Fjord.
"Fjord,
"the rangers have had a sighting.
"A troop of five approaching.
"They're asking if they are to engage."
TRAVIS: Yes.
LAURA: What?
SAM: (whispering) You're a bastard.
You're a bastard.
MATT: "Engage."
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: He puts the stone away
and gives you a very stoic nod.
SAM: You cold-hearted snake.
♪ Snakin' my way ♪
MATT: "If they are what you say they are,
"there is no way that that ranger troop
"is going to make a dent."
TRAVIS: No.
MATT: "So we know they're coming.
"Should we wake the others and prepare?"
TRAVIS: (sighs)
Yes.
Perhaps if they know the
entrance is being watched,
or was,
they'll be more cautious.
Take more time.
MATT: "So you are intending
to let them rest longer?"
TRAVIS: As long as we can.
MATT: Did Caleb set his alarm?
MARISHA: Uh-uh.
LIAM: No.
I'd have to go
to sleep and wake up
and we gave up on me resting,
so there's no alarm.
It's just my cat looking
for a Tetsuo explosion.
MARISHA: Should we open the door?
MATT: "Let us--"
MARISHA: Okay, guess we know they're coming.
MATT: "-- be at the ready then."
And he drifts to the left of the door
and close to where you are resting
and where you were setting up there
and just crosses his arms.
"(exhales heavily)"
(papers rustling)
In still silence,
you and Essek remain conscious,
just locked in eye contact, waiting,
occasionally looking out
over the rest of the troupe.
You're now well into your
fifth hour of Frumpkin,
concentrating, and you're tired.
It's a lot of monotonous staring
into a still, dark room
with no light source
with a cat that cannot really
see well in this space.
I would like you to make a
constitution saving throw for me.
LIAM: Constitution saving throw, and
I'm not roll-- I'm about to do that.
I'm not relying on Frumpkin, really,
to see or hear well.
If my vision goes (swishing),
I know that those charges have gone off.
MATT: Yes, I agree.
LIAM: A constitution save, you said?
MATT: Yes, please.
LIAM: (sighs)
10.
MARISHA: Shit.
MATT: 10, okay.
In the long time, in the
stillness, in the quiet,
you're trying to resist nodding off,
and you do so.
SAM: (sigh of relief)
MATT: 10 was the DC.
(whoosh) There's a flash above.
SAM: She doesn't see me fall asleep?
MARISHA: No, he said you didn't.
SAM: You didn't fall asleep.
MARISHA: You saved.
MATT: No, you didn't, you saved.
10 was the DC, you succeeded.
Frumpkin suddenly glances up.
(thud)
You see three little lights (whooshing).
And then you lose
connection with Frumpkin.
SAM: (gasps)
LIAM: It's happening.
MATT: Now let me make some
rolls here on my own.
SAM: Oh, oh, oh!
LIAM: We're frozen in time,
but that means that you
guys are getting shat out
the side of a stone wall.
MARISHA: Huh?
SAM and TALIESIN: We got a short rest.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Got a short rest.
MARISHA: Well.
MATT: Not a full rest.
MARISHA: Got a short rest.
TALIESIN: Take my short rest.
MATT: I rolled to see
how close they were,
and they were a lot closer, sorry.
ASHLEY: I have a question.
So if we've already done one short rest,
and I used all my hit dice--
LIAM: You can't use them again.
ASHLEY: You can't reuse them, right?
MATT: Correct.
ASHLEY: If we do another short rest? Okay.
MATT: Until you can take a long rest, yeah.
ASHLEY: Cool.
MATT: Now, DC is 18?
LAURA: On?
MATT: On your Symbol.
LAURA: Yeah, 18.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Does a Heroes' Feast
bring you back up to
full hit points?
I don't think it does.
MATT: I don't believe so.
TALIESIN: But you gain the hit points
that the temporary hit, so you gain two.
LAURA: Two hit points.
SAM: Yeah, we're fine now.
LIAM: We got this.
LAURA: Yep.
ASHLEY: It's as if I had
a full night's rest.
MATT: See, now, those--
Sorry, I'm going to do
some interesting
behind-the-scenes rolls here.
Be patient, I apologize.
SAM: It's on.
LIAM: Let's play 'til 4:00am.
TALIESIN: I hate all of this.
SAM: It's on!
MARISHA: (exhales)
ASHLEY: I woke up now, I'm ready.
MATT: (laughs)
SAM: Are you laughing at your rolls?
ASHLEY: Is it a good laugh,
or is it a bad laugh?
MATT: You'll find out.
SAM: He's mad cackling.
MATT: (laughs)
This shit got really interesting.
Okay.
LIAM: The bones tell me nothing.
MARISHA: (laughs)
SAM: As long as Otis is
dead, doesn't matter.
LIAM: (laughs)
MARISHA: He's the real big bad.
LAURA: The intuit charges
do how much damage?
TRAVIS and LIAM: 10d10.
LAURA: That's great.
ASHLEY: 10d10?!
LIAM: So that's 30d10
that just happened.
SAM: Of psychic.
LIAM: Psychic.
SAM: So we hope that works.
LIAM: That does nothing to Lucien.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: (exhales)
TALIESIN: Just trying
to thin out his posse.
LIAM: That's an average of
150 hit points of damage
to anyone who is not
invulnerable to psychic damage.
SAM: Even if they're--
TALIESIN: And that's not
counting if they fall.
LAURA: Yeah, so they could
take fall damage, too.
SAM: But if they're resistant to it,
that's still 25 points.
MATT: So
if I could have Beauregard and Caleb
roll 10d10 for me.
LAURA: Oh!
MARISHA: We're rolling?
MATT: For each of the
intuit charges that you set.
MARISHA: Okay, 10d10,
okay. Okay, okay, okay.
SAM: Those are all d6s.
Those are all d6s.
LIAM: Oh, thank you. I'm just terrified.
MATT: (laughs)
LIAM: I'm just terrified.
TALIESIN: Throw you one, I mean.
LIAM: I've got plenty.
MARISHA: No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Where'd my--?
LAURA: This is why you have
giant hoards like I do.
TALIESIN: Underneath that weird--
SAM: I have one d10.
MARISHA: Is this a d10?
No, good, good, good,
just what I needed, five.
LAURA: Obviously, my giant
hoards do nothing, though,
for my quality rolls.
MARISHA: Oh, okay, okay, okay.
Hang on, hang on.
That would be 20.
SAM: I've been using
the same set of dice
for three years.
LAURA: Maybe campaign 3, I'll
just have one set of dice.
SAM: That's not true.
TALIESIN: You're a liar.
ASHLEY: That'd be hard.
TALIESIN: You might start over fresh, maybe.
LAURA: Maybe, yeah, like, I'll have new.
LIAM: 55 for me.
SAM: Ooh, nice.
MARISHA: Another (exhales)
20, five, plus-- shoot, okay.
Not too bad for me.
66.
SAM: Whoa.
LIAM: High, that's high.
MATT: That's really high.
MARISHA: I rolled three 10s, yeah.
LIAM: (exhales)
MARISHA: (exhales)
(laughing sigh)
MATT: So you lost
connection to Frumpkin.
What happens now?
LIAM: I count.
Eins, zwei, drei, vier, fünf.
And I release the tower.
MATT: (whooshing)
All of you who are still unconscious
are knocked out of your deep sleep
into the somewhat cold interior,
the non-comfortable
center of this tunnel.
For a moment, you're discombobulated
as you begin to realize
where you are and why.
Essek and Fjord are both conscious.
Essek looks over at you.
"It's go time."
LAURA: Did the intuit
charges already go off?
LIAM: Yep, rolled for them all.
MATT: You assume.
TRAVIS: It was earlier than we wanted.
Now's the time.
LAURA: What do we see?
What do we see?
MATT: You don't see anything right now.
There is no light down the tunnel.
SAM: I'm going to--
MATT: Do you want to
make a perception check?
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
SAM: I'm going to cast a spell
on Caleb, Intellect Fortress,
and I'm going to start
running full speed, dash.
MATT: Okay, I need you to
make an acrobatics check
as you are now running
down part of a decline
covered in ice and frost.
TRAVIS: 19 for perception.
SAM: Acrobatics, you said?
Oh, 20.
MATT: Yeah, you're more
sliding down at this point.
SAM: Also, that spell
is a 3rd-level spell.
MATT: Indeed, so roll
another d20 for me.
SAM: 12.
MATT: Okay, you're fine.
SAM: Okay.
LIAM: I'm not-- I'm just using the rope
to try to go down,
but I'm not running, or
bolting, or anything.
MATT: No worries, no worries at all.
All right.
MARISHA: Fjord rolled perception.
MATT: What'd you get? You said 19?
TRAVIS: 19.
MATT: Anybody else? One
other person can roll,
or can give him advantage.
TALIESIN: I'll give you advantage.
TRAVIS: Are you sure?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I can't see.
I don't have darkvision.
TRAVIS: Oh, 21.
18, natural 18.
MATT: Nice.
So you don't see anything,
but what you hear is a voice going,
"Fuck. Fuck."
SAM: Ooh.
TRAVIS: We recognize the voice?
MATT: Sounds very much like Lucien.
SAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Lucien's down here?
MATT: You don't know where it came from.
It's echo-y and in the distance.
What do you do?
You all waiting for them to come to you?
LAURA: No, let's give them shit.
MATT: No.
MARISHA: It's go time, right?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Go time?
SAM: What about the thing?
LIAM: Gotta light it up.
LAURA: Send the blasts down into the--
LIAM: We never decided
to give those--
SAM: ARG, what is it?
LIAM: We never decided to
give those to anybody else.
MARISHA: Oh, we got-- well, we talked
about how you were
going to teach us that,
which I assume we did.
LIAM: And we never did it.
LAURA: We know we said we were
going to do it over Heroes'--
MARISHA: Over Heroes' Feast, yeah.
LAURA: But we didn't say it
out loud while we were--
LIAM: We said it ahead of
time, we didn't say it during.
MATT: Well, as you all
begin to make your way,
and it is a bit of a
quick run to the edge,
glancing over inside
the chamber, there--
does anyone want to have a light source
for those who cannot see in the dark?
LAURA: We've got 60 feet darkvision.
TRAVIS: 60 feet as well,
which is to the middle of the room.
LAURA: Yeah, that's to
the middle of the room.
MATT: Who does not have darkvision?
MARISHA: I've got my goggles.
MATT: All right. That's half the group
who can't see right now.
LIAM: Matt, I don't know how
fast things are moving here.
Have Veth and Caleb
come anywhere near the group
in the way this is timing out?
Or is it like slow motion?
MATT: You've got a little ways to go.
Like-- also, to be fair,
the rest of the group is pretty quick,
at least half of it,
but you're moving in tandem,
so you're about 100 feet
behind the rest of the group.
LIAM: Well, we would fall down
in this hallway, running,
so I'm going to bring up
globules of light while we move
so that we don't.
MATT: Okay.
So the both of you
running with the light?
MARISHA: How long does it last?
LAURA: Is your sword out?
TRAVIS: Not yet.
MARISHA: That's a good question.
Was about to say, 'til it's done,
but I don't know if that's true.
LAURA: If they're stunned,
if they're in pain,
it only lasts for a minute.
MARISHA: Let's go.
LAURA: I fucking go in there.
MARISHA: I move.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: As soon as Beau's ass
hits the ground.
TALIESIN: An hour.
MARISHA: Oh, then let's do it.
TRAVIS: If I get to the doorway
and I have 60-feet darkvision,
if I can see him,
or even a semblance of--
MATT: So Fjord, you get
to the doorway there.
MARISHA: I give off light, okay.
MATT: Here's what you see.
TALIESIN: Yeah, you give off...
30 feet.
MARISHA: Beau has Holy Weapon on her.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: So we have 30 feet of light.
ASHLEY: Yes.
(gasping)
MARISHA: Who dat?
ASHLEY: Who are they?
Who's standing?
LIAM: Oh, it's Lucien.
LAURA: Two of them are standing,
and three of them have fallen.
MATT: Beauregard gets there quickly
because she's pretty fast.
She gets to it before anybody else does.
Everyone else gets up into the space.
TALIESIN: I'm in the back.
MATT: Right.
TALIESIN: Because I have
a concentration spell up.
LAURA: Can I see?
ASHLEY: I have my sword out also.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: But you have darkvision, right?
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: Right, Essek is
a little bit behind.
He's not as quick either.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm not in the room yet.
LAURA: And we would spread out
as fast as possible.
MATT: Do you spread out
as fast as possible?
TRAVIS: I would send Eldritch Blast
towards anyone just to kick off
initiative as soon as they hit.
LAURA: I would send Guiding Bolt
towards anyone in the center of the room.
TRAVIS: To max out this minute.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's time
to light shit up.
MARISHA: I smash my fists together,
and light up my lightning gloves.
MATT: Okay, well, for
those who are currently
in the combat right now.
MARISHA: Ho.
MATT: Let's go ahead
and roll initiative.
TRAVIS: Are we fighting tonight?
MATT: No.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: But we're going to do something
that's going to set the stage here.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: This first round
will set the stage, so.
SAM: (cackles)
MARISHA: Initiative?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: Mm. Mm-mm-mm, okay, okay.
LAURA: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: All right, that's
the best initiative
I've had in months.
MARISHA: (whispered counting)
Yeah, yeah, I'm going to stick.
LAURA: Oh, cool angle.
ASHLEY: Ooh!
SAM: (vocalizing)
MATT: All right.
Those who rolled, 25 to 20?
LAURA: 22.
MARISHA: 23.
MATT: All right, see what we got.
TRAVIS: Beau and Jess.
MARISHA: Beau, Jess.
SAM: Beaujest.
MATT: 20 to 15?
TRAVIS: 18.
TALIESIN: 15.
ASHLEY: 15 for me as well.
SAM: Whoa.
LAURA: Fjord, Caduceus.
MARISHA: Ford, Cad, Yasha?
Or Yasha--?
LAURA: What's your dexterity?
TALIESIN: My dex is 14.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'll go before you.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MARISHA: Fjord, Yasha, Cad?
TRAVIS: Fjord, Yasha, Caduceus.
MATT: Okay, and then
the rest of the group
is catching up currently.
SAM: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All right, so as
you guys are running,
and then, actually--
Aw, shit, Essek rolled really bad.
Okay.
MARISHA: Essek is in there?
MATT: He's in there,
but his initiative--
MARISHA: Somewhere?
MATT: He's behind you with Caduceus.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: So, top of the round,
as you get into the space,
those who can see
see
Tyffial,
Otis,
and Zoran face down on the ground,
not moving.
SAM: Yeah!
MATT: You see, just having
descended from the rope,
Cree, who, while very bloodied,
seems to be partially recovered,
shaking it out,
and an untouched Lucien,
who are both in the process
of frustratingly looking
at the space around them,
and grabbing two large sacks,
like large backpacks,
holding them to themselves
before they look up,
and as you guys rush in,
Lucien goes,
"Well, that's a real
dickish thing to do!"
First up is Beauregard.
What do you do?
MARISHA: (exhales) Okay, I'm
going to reach in my pocket,
I'm going to pull out that
Arcane Field Generator,
and I'm going to (heavy clicking),
and give it a little kiss,
and toss it in.
MATT: Okay.
(whooshing) As you throw it, you can see
Lucien, who's holding the pack,
backs to defend himself
from whatever it is,
and as you throw it,
this wave of electrifying arcane energy
fills the chamber around them,
and sets in place these little drift,
soft spheres of light,
like someone blew a dandelion,
and all the pieces just held in place,
slightly gyrating with this faint glow,
and it fills the area except for--
SAM: (buzzing)
MATT: -- right here.
MARISHA: Great, great, great, great, great.
Okay, I can still move, yeah?
MATT: You can still move, yeah.
MARISHA: Where's Lucien?
MATT: Right there.
MARISHA: He's with those--
Dead center?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
SAM: Where my fluffernutter would've been.
MARISHA: Whew, okay.
This wall's fairly scalable for, like,
a monk that can run up walls, yeah?
MATT: Meaning this here?
MARISHA: Yeah, this piece of rubble,
rubble, rubble, yeah.
SAM: Asking for a friend.
MATT: Yeah, give it a shot.
I mean, it's a wall
that's mostly fallen,
and broken, and who knows
if it can hold something.
MARISHA: Yeah, but I can wall climb.
I am going to haul ass,
and start doing exactly
what we talked about,
and I'm going to start spreading out,
and I know I have a
better shot of making it
to this side than probably
some of my teammates,
so I want to try--
MATT: Try and run up the wall,
and jump over here, you mean?
Or over where?
MARISHA: Yep, yeah, yeah,
can I find that, like,
a pocket--
My laser's not great.
Yeah, around that way.
MATT: Yeah, and then where
do you want to land?
On top of the wall you want to land?
MARISHA: No, no, no,
but, like, in a pocket
on the other side of the wall.
MATT: On the side over here, you mean?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: 55 feet of movement.
SAM: Fitty-five.
MARISHA: Fitty-five.
MATT: You can wall climb.
You just run up, tch, tch, tch,
and you jump down behind?
MARISHA: Yep, was that 50-ish, 55?
MATT: Yeah, we'll say.
Make a constitution check,
because there is a patch
of brown mold there
that nobody cleared.
MARISHA: That's fine.
Well, that could've been fine.
That could've been fine.
13.
MATT: 13.
MARISHA: It's not good, is it?
MATT: You take--
MARISHA: To check?
Do I want to burn this?
No, I don't.
Give it to me.
MATT: Okay, so you're
taking it, correct?
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
MATT: All right.
You take 19 points of cold damage.
SAM: Ooh.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: As the brown mold
is now siphoning the heat
out of your body as you land.
MARISHA: Whatever, I'm good.
MATT: But the room is
now filled with energy.
That finishes your go.
Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I'm going to cast
(blows raspberries) Guiding Bolt
at 1st-level right at Lucien.
MATT: Go for it.
Roll for an attack on that.
SAM: Pew!
LAURA: That is a 24.
Does it hit?
MATT: 24, that definitely hits.
LAURA: So that's 4d6 radiant damage.
TALIESIN: I'm holding you up?
MARISHA: Yeah, you're holding me up.
LAURA: (counting)
15 points of radiant damage,
and the next attack has
advantage against him.
SAM: Ooh, nice.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: And I'm going to use my movement
to back up into the hallway.
MATT: So you just get--
LAURA: Out of the--
MATT: -- the fuck out of
the radius, all right.
So you are back up in the hall,
and you can hear the footsteps,
approaching behind, of Caleb
and Nott a little ways down.
All right, that finishes.
LIAM: While I'm running,
I'm going to cast Globe
of Invulnerability.
MATT: On yourself?
LIAM: On myself.
MATT: You got it, all right.
LIAM: While running.
MATT: So as you're running,
you go ahead and--
Explain what that looks like.
Because you're running into darkness right now.
There's no light source ahead of you.
LIAM: Well, there were globules,
but as soon as I cast the words,
a very pale, pale blue,
crystal clear sphere just goes voof,
and is on both side--
Well, you're ahead of me, probably,
so it goes out 10 feet
in each direction?
MATT: I think it's a 10-foot radius.
LIAM: 10-foot radius,
so it's almost like a
large crystal bubble,
like in The Explorers.
SAM: Oh, yeah.
MATT: Very cool, all right.
SAM: Contemporary movie
that we all know and love.
MATT: Some of us were in.
SAM: You guys know.
MATT: Technically.
TALIESIN: Some of us were in it, thank you.
SAM: Oh, that's right, you were in it.
MATT: All right, it is now Lucien's turn.
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
TALIESIN: Nickel on my--
MATT: Lucien, at the start of his turn, shifts.
SAM: Was your name Amadeus or something? No.
TALIESIN: Ludwig.
MATT: The path that way,
so it now encompasses the
whole front part of the room,
and you can see it.
Like, you now see that this
is a very helpful endeavor
to see where this cone is facing
as he shifts the eye
(squishing) into place,
and he (groans) picks the thing up,
and goes, "Well, this really
fucks up my plans a bit.
"(sighs)
"But well played.
I cannot lie, well played.
"Cree, take care of this."
SAM: Take care of this?
MARISHA: He's going to try and bounce.
MATT: It's now Fjord's turn.
SAM: Not going to heal
his friends or anything?
MARISHA: He doesn't
give a fuck about them.
SAM: But they're his friends!
MARISHA: (scoffs)
TRAVIS: I'm going to run 30 feet into--
MATT: Actually, and he will move.
He was going to move back about there,
and keep that at about
that radius there.
Yeah, about there.
TRAVIS: So that cone is covering
all of his downed people?
MATT: Yep.
ASHLEY: That's smart.
TRAVIS: That is smart.
MATT: So, Fjord, what you doing?
SAM: Pew, pew, pew, pew, pew.
TRAVIS: (sighs heavily)
Yeah, who is--
Man.
Who is that?
MATT: That's Zoran, and he
would be outside the cone.
TRAVIS: Take what you're given.
I will run up to the
edge, straight forward,
towards the cone, stopping short of it.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: The gate is
worthless at this point,
because, if he looks at
the other side, it's gone,
and it's a spell that's wasted.
With my bonus action,
I will cast Far Step,
and I will jump over the cone
to where Zoran is on the other side.
MATT: All right, so there?
MARISHA: That's cool.
LIAM: Good to know.
TRAVIS: And I will fucking swing
away at Zoran on the ground
with advantage on my attacks
because he's prone.
MARISHA: Come on.
SAM: Ooh.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: That's cold.
SAM: Savage.
TRAVIS: Does that sound right?
MARISHA: Get rid of those death saves.
MATT: So you're just striking into him?
Go for it.
All right, so you go ahead
and roll attack twice with advantage.
MARISHA: Come on, come on.
SAM: He's going to kill Zoran
worse than he killed those rangers.
(laughter)
MATT: Go, roll attack twice with advantage.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I can't shoot a spell out into it.
It'll get canceled out.
Plus.
That's 30 to hit.
MATT: That's a hit, it's an auto-crit,
he loses two death saves.
TRAVIS: Oh.
MARISHA AND TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Shaving off death saves.
TRAVIS: Do I need to roll damage?
MATT: You don't. You just hit,
and it takes off death saves,
so you roll a second
attack with advantage.
MARISHA: And you kill him.
LAURA: And you'll kill him kill him.
MARISHA: (whispers) Kill him.
SAM: (whispers) Murder, murder.
LIAM: ♪ Agony ♪
TALIESIN: I think I know
what he's thinking.
TRAVIS: Yeah, how much space did I burn
from the entrance to
the tip of the field,
the anti-magic cone?
MATT: From there to here?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
Oh, no, from where I
was stationed to the--
MATT: Right.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: To where you are now?
TRAVIS: No, no, from
where I first started,
the entrance to the tunnel
to the tip of the--
LAURA: That was, like, 15 feet?
MATT: That was about 20-- hold on,
25 feet.
TRAVIS: It was 25 feet?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: Okay.
I only have 30 feet,
so I can't get there.
I'm going to smoke this motherfucker.
MATT: All right, go for it.
TRAVIS: That's cocked.
Yeah, that's 28.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
SAM: (cackles)
MATT: He is face down on
the ground, and is out.
The first strike is, you carve into him.
The body just gives in.
TRAVIS: I'll look up at Lucien,
I'll take the Star Razor,
I'll shove it in his neck, and turn it.
SAM: (groans)
MATT: The head just
dislodges a few inches.
TRAVIS: No way out of
this fight, my friend.
MATT: "Apparently.
"Well."
That finish your turn?
TRAVIS: It does.
MATT: At the end of your
turn, he's going to use
two of his legendary actions
to shift focus.
TRAVIS: Look over here.
MATT: Shifts it that way.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's a
good call, good idea.
MATT: Finishing your turn,
it is now Cree's turn.
(as Lucian) "Yes, well."
TRAVIS: Two legendaries a turn, okay.
MATT: "I guess there's only
one thing left to do."
MARISHA: Mmm.
MATT: Cree goes ahead and
picks up her backpack,
darts over.
LAURA: You're going to try a
Dimension Door, aren't you?
MARISHA: Absolutely, absolutely.
MATT: Takes her cloak, this
deep red, furred cloak,
wraps it around Lucien, and
both of them (whoosh) vanish.
LAURA: Of course.
TALIESIN: Wait.
Can you--
SAM: He can't Counterspell.
He's in the cone.
TALIESIN: Yeah, oh, he's in the cone?
SAM: Fjord is in the cone right now.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Are you thinking of Essek?
TALIESIN: Essek-- can Essek?
MARISHA: Essek's not close enough.
MATT: It's a 60-foot range.
TALIESIN: Fuck.
SAM: Super far away.
TRAVIS: Matt, you are fucking smart.
SAM: Well, we're not bad.
TRAVIS: No, I know.
MATT: (zooming noises)
TRAVIS: Legendaries to shift the focus.
God, I thought I got close enough.
TALIESIN: You did so well.
TRAVIS: I was doing my best Sam Riegel.
SAM: (laughs)
TALIESIN: You did so well.
SAM: You did great.
TRAVIS: I was trying to--
MATT: Technically, we
are out of initiative
as everybody else on the
field is unconscious
that would be considered
your enemies here.
LAURA: Then we slice them.
MARISHA: Yeah, we clear them.
MATT: All right, as you both catch up.
MARISHA: Beau's right there.
SAM: We don't hear-- as we're running,
we don't hear anyone apparate behind us
or anything, right?
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, no shit, yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh, but, but,
but, wait, wait, wait.
Oh, no, you're not
close enough, are you?
Nevermind.
TRAVIS: Do you need to see with
Dimension Door or your don't?
MATT: You do not have to see.
You don't even have to know.
You can just imagine it,
which can put you in the walls and shit,
but they've been here before.
TALIESIN: You were in the cone?
MARISHA: I was in the cone.
LAURA: They're 500 feet.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: So they're not far.
They can't be that far away.
MARISHA: They can't be that far.
MATT: They're not that far.
TALIESIN: Couldn't have done it anyway.
SAM: No, but we--
TRAVIS: They know where they're--
SAM: Caleb and me don't know,
because we're the only two with Message.
LAURA: We could not spend
the time to smoke these guys,
and we could just run around
and start chasing them.
LIAM: They would've
jumped in our direction.
They didn't know we were there,
or what was going on.
They're probably--
TRAVIS: I am going to smoke
these people.
MARISHA: I am also going to
absolutely smoke these people.
Beau's right there, she's
going to start chucking away
on whoever--
TALIESIN: Grab a head.
MATT: Out of initiative
above this moment.
LIAM: We don't run into them, running in?
MATT: No, you do not.
You catch up to everybody else,
and you, Fjord, Jester.
TALIESIN: Heads off.
MATT: Otis and Tyffial.
SAM: Wait, wait!
Leave Otis for me.
(laughter)
MARISHA: I'm about to, like,
break Otis's neck,
and then I--
LAURA: (laughs)
SAM: Crossbow in the mouth.
(laughter)
Thunk.
LIAM: Where are the rest,
where are the rest?
MATT: Done.
MARISHA: They Dimension Door'ed
that way.
LIAM: We know they want that way?
How do you know which way they went?
TRAVIS: We're assuming.
MARISHA: Well, we're assuming.
They could've--
LAURA: They're going to the Somnovem ward.
ASHLEY: I'm going to give them
a quick check.
LIAM: Then we need to go?
ASHLEY: Check their body,
see-- do they have anything?
MARISHA: Check everything.
LIAM: We don't have time for that.
ASHLEY: Well, I don't know if they have our bag.
SAM: Yeah, our shit!
ASHLEY: Our shit!
SAM: Otis had our shit,
let's dig through.
MARISHA: Yeah, do they have our bag?
SAM: (rifling noises)
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: I'll check Otis, you check--
MARISHA: Investigation check?
ASHLEY: Okay.
MARISHA: Can I assist Yash?
SAM: There's three bodies, right?
Check somebody else.
LAURA: We're rolling investigation,
why wouldn't you do it?
MARISHA: Because I just
tried to snap his neck,
unless I can do something else.
LAURA: You just dropped him, so.
SAM: Yeah, do whatever.
LAURA: Beau can do it,
you can do it.
MARISHA: Okay, okay, we'll all
investigate, all of us.
TRAVIS: 18.
SAM: 23.
LIAM: I'm staying at the entrance.
LAURA: I'm staying at the entrance.
I'm not going in there.
MARISHA: 20 total.
MATT: Okay, beyond their supplies,
Bag of Holding is not on them.
MARISHA: Son of a bitch!
LAURA: Let's go, let's go!
TRAVIS: Time to go.
SAM: Anything else useful?
MARISHA: Anything useful?
MATT: Not really, other than their weapons,
which could be useful,
if you want to grab them.
MARISHA: Why not?
Fine, we grab their weapons.
Anything?
Nothing else, nothing?
TALIESIN: Detect Magic.
Are any of those weapons interesting?
LAURA: As we're running, we have to go.
LIAM: We have to go.
MATT: Zoran's maul.
TALIESIN: Let's grab that.
MATT: Otis's crossbow, a light crossbow.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: And Tyffial's longsword
all emit a magical aura.
MARISHA: All right, we grab their weapons.
TALIESIN: Grab the weapons--
TRAVIS: We're running.
MARISHA: Yeah, we run.
MATT: All right, as you begin
running down the hallway,
a voice creeps into...
both of your heads.
TALIESIN: Fuck.
SAM: Oh.
MATT: "I'm not going to lie,
that was inspired, well thought out.
"More than I expected.
"You're brave.
"But you've also shown to be
more of a thorn in my side
"than I ever gave you credit for.
"That's not going to fly.
"But I'm excited for you to
see my handiwork soon enough."
(rumbling)
You hear this rumbling sound ahead.
As the hallway ahead of you begins to shake.
SAM: ♪ Shakin' my way ♪
MARISHA: He's collapsing the tunnel.
He's collapsing the tunnel!
MATT: (rumbling)
(crashing)
MARISHA: Don't--
MATT: Bits of rock and stone
are beginning to fall.
Do you continue forward,
or do you head back?
LIAM: This is this?
MATT: You guys are just now
hitting the intersection.
MARISHA: There's no way.
TALIESIN: No.
SAM: No way what?
TRAVIS: Gotta go forward.
That's game over if that's shut off.
We got nothing else.
MARISHA: Can everyone-- haul ass!
SAM: Oh my god, if we
get trapped in here.
LAURA: We're going to get buried,
we're going to get buried.
TRAVIS: Otherwise, we lose.
MARISHA: I don't want to die.
Some of us are fast, some aren't.
SAM: You can Dimension Door.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Nope, because nobody got a full rest.
LAURA: I've got one
5th-level spell left, that's it.
MARISHA: Fuck.
LAURA: I can Dimension Door one time,
and then everything's
wiped on the highs.
TRAVIS: The full rest fucked us.
LIAM: You got any fours?
LAURA: Nope.
TRAVIS: We can't go in
there without, like--
TALIESIN: No, this is
what broke us last time.
LAURA: We got to stop.
TALIESIN: We have to regroup.
We have to assume this is not something
that's going to happen
immediately and regroup.
MARISHA: We did okay, the trap
technically worked, and--
SAM: Should we get out of here?
Crawl up the rope?
I feel like we're going
to get buried in here.
MARISHA: We can try and
go down the center,
and cut them off that way.
LAURA: If we back up a little bit,
does the rumbling stop?
Like, how far does the
ceiling collapse to?
MATT: Well, if you stop and--
Are you not moving forward?
LAURA: We're not going to move forward
if the ceiling's collapsing.
MATT: Okay, the ceiling
around you isn't collapsing.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: But the hall above,
you're seeing parts-- (crumbling)
TRAVIS: It's 200 feet of hallway,
and shit's moving, and falling,
and we don't have spells.
MARISHA: It's not the way to die.
TRAVIS: 200-plus feet, yeah.
LIAM: And having to climb
up, and climb walls.
TALIESIN: At the very least,
we have to wait for it
to stop falling and re--
MATT: About a minute goes by
before the shaking stops--
SAM: ♪ Shakin' my way ♪
MATT: -- localized around
the hall before you,
some sort of magical quake.
SAM: ♪ Quakin' my way ♪
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: As it subsides and
the dust begins to settle,
the hallway is not entirely collapsed,
but there is definitely a lot
of fallen debris in the way
that will probably have to be cleared
before there's any chance
of moving forward,
and you're not certain how
much of it has fallen in,
not without a proper inspection.
But as that dust begins to settle a bit,
and you all take a deep breath,
the voice comes back once more.
MARISHA: This asshole.
MATT: "Just putting a bit
of space between us.
"You understand.
"I've got important work to do.
"But please, come along.
"Hate for no one to see the
product of our hard work."
And as you stand there,
in the middle of the hall,
taking in this
partial victory, partial loss,
in the quiet silence
and darkness of Aeor.
And we're going to
end tonight's game there.
LIAM: So frustrating.
SAM: Frustrating?
It was a success, a rousing success.
MATT: That was a rousing success.
LAURA: Only two of them now.
TRAVIS: Plus a massive failure.
SAM: Failure?!
MARISHA: No!
LAURA: We got three kills.
SAM: We killed three of them.
TRAVIS: Yeah, they were expendable,
they were expendable.
MARISHA: Yeah, but we went in--
ASHLEY: That's still
three less to fight.
MARISHA: Three less to deal with.
SAM: Huge, huge.
MARISHA: This was not going
to be the Lucien fight.
Uh-uh, this was not going
We knew that this was only
to pick off a few fuckers,
which we did.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: We did.
MARISHA: Come on, Travis, you
got to take the victories.
TRAVIS: How do you get a long rest
before we catch up to him
before he does anything?
LAURA: We don't.
TRAVIS: We don't.
MARISHA: Oh, I'm not talking about the long rest.
TRAVIS: That's a failure,
that is a failure.
I mean, we're going to
play it out anyway, but.
LAURA: We're going in the same
way we went against him before,
but now, there's--
TRAVIS: Almost worse?
LAURA: -- only two of them.
TRAVIS: If we can find them, catch up.
LAURA: Sure, if we can
find them, catch up,
then, maybe, we can take them.
LIAM: Run through whatever
is down here with them.
MATT: The good news is,
whatever--
whatever is living in this ruin,
for the time being, they're
getting to them first.
MARISHA: It's their problem now, yeah.
MATT: There are a lot
of factors at work here
that could work against
you and work for you,
but it depends on what
you use at your disposal,
and what choices you
make as we go forward.
Don't think you're out
of the game on this.
MARISHA: Mm-mm.
LIAM: Frustrating.
LAURA: But three down.
TALIESIN: Three down.
MARISHA: Three down is
something not to sneeze at.
ASHLEY: Three down's good.
TALIESIN: I'm calling it a win.
SAM: I am, too.
TALIESIN: That's a B-minus.
SAM: Otis dead.
MARISHA: Otis is dead.
LAURA: We're eight against two.
TALIESIN: We're not grounded,
and we're not going to Disneyland.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: We'll see.
LIAM: Until he brings this city.
LAURA: Sure.
MATT: We'll find out.
At the very least, you know he's
only 500 feet ahead of you,
for now.
So we'll pick up there next week.
Thank you all for joining us.
We love you very much,
and is it Thursday yet?
Good night.
MARISHA: This asshole.